
Context:

PEGGY FINDS THE THEATER
I
Dramatic Dialogue
“Of course, this is no surprise to us,” Thomas Lane
 said to his daughter Peggy, who perched tensely on
 the edge of a kitchen stool. “We could hardly have
 helped knowing that you’ve wanted to be an actress
 since you were out of your cradle. It’s just that decisions
 like this can’t be made quickly.”


 “But, Dad!” Peggy almost wailed. “You just finished
 saying yourself that I’ve been thinking about
 this and wanting it for years! You can’t follow that by
 calling it a quick decision!” She turned to her mother,
 her hazel eyes flashing under a mass of dark chestnut
 curls. “Mother, you understand, don’t you?”


 Mrs. Lane smiled gently and placed her soft white
 hand on her daughter’s lean brown one. “Of course
 I understand, Margaret, and so does your father. We
 both want to do what’s best for you, not to stand in
 your way. The only question is whether the time is
 right, or if you should wait longer.”

2

 “Wait! Mother—Dad—I’m years behind already!
 The theater is full of beginners a year and even two
 years younger than I am, and girls of my age have
 lots of acting credits already. Besides, what is there to
 wait for?”


 Peggy’s father put down his coffee cup and leaned
 back in the kitchen chair until it tilted on two legs
 against the wall behind him. He took his time before
 answering. When he finally spoke, his voice was
 warm and slow.


 “Peg, I don’t want to hold up your career. I don’t
 have any objections to your wanting to act. I think—judging
 from the plays I’ve seen you in at high
 school and college—that you have a real talent. But
 I thought that if you would go on with college for
 three more years and get your degree, you would
 gain so much worth-while knowledge that you’d use
 and enjoy for the rest of your life—”


 “But not acting knowledge!” Peggy cried.


 “There’s more to life than that,” her father put in.
 “There’s history and literature and foreign languages
 and mathematics and sciences and music and art
 and philosophy and a lot more—all of them fascinating
 and all important.”


 “None of them is as fascinating as acting to me,”
 Peggy replied, “and none of them is nearly as important
 to my life.”

3

 Mrs. Lane nodded. “Of course, dear. I know just
 how you feel about it,” she said. “I would have answered
 just the same way when I was your age, except
 that for me it was singing instead of acting. But—” and
 here her pleasant face betrayed a trace of
 sadness—“but I was never able to be a singer. I guess
 I wasn’t quite good enough or else I didn’t really
 want it hard enough—to go on with all the study and
 practice it needed.”


 She paused and looked thoughtfully at her daughter’s
 intense expression, then took a deep breath before
 going on.


 “What you must realize, Margaret, is that you may
 not quite make the grade. We think you’re wonderful,
 but the theater is full of young girls whose parents
 thought they were the most talented things
 alive; girls who won all kinds of applause in high-school
 and college plays; girls who have everything
 except luck. You may be one of these girls, and if you
 are, we want you to be prepared for it. We want you
 to have something to fall back on, just in case
 you ever need it.”


 Mr. Lane, seeing Peggy’s hurt look, was quick to
 step in with reassurance. “We don’t think you’re going
 to fail, Peg. We have every confidence in you and
 your talents. I don’t see how you could miss being the
 biggest success ever—but I’m your father, not a
 Broadway critic or a play producer, and I could be
 wrong. And if I am wrong, I don’t want you to be
 hurt. All I ask is that you finish college and get a
 teacher’s certificate so that you can always find
 useful work if you have to. Then you can try your
 luck in the theater. Doesn’t that make sense?”

4

 Peggy stared at the faded linoleum on the floor for
 a few moments before answering. Then, looking first
 at her mother and then at her father, she replied
 firmly, “No, it doesn’t! It might make sense if we
 were talking about anything else but acting, but
 we’re not. If I’m ever going to try, I’ll have a better
 chance now than I will in three years. But I can see
 your point of view, Dad, and I’ll tell you what—I’ll
 make a bargain with you.”


 “What sort of bargain, Peg?” her father asked curiously.


 “If you let me go to New York now, and if I can get
 into a good drama school there, I’ll study and try to
 find acting jobs at the same time. That way I’ll still be
 going to school and I’ll be giving myself a chance.
 And if I’m not started in a career in one year, I’ll go
 back to college and get my teacher’s certificate before
 I try the theater again. How does that sound to
 you?”


 “It sounds fair enough,” Tom Lane admitted, “but
 are you so confident that you’ll see results in one
 year? After all, some of our top stars worked many
 times that long before getting any recognition.”


 “I don’t expect recognition in one year, Dad,”
 Peggy said. “I’m not that conceited or that silly. All
 I hope is that I’ll be able to get a part in that time,
 and maybe be able to make a living out of acting.
 And that’s probably asking too much. If I have to,
 I’ll make a living at something else, maybe working
 in an office or something, while I wait for parts. What
 I want to prove in this year is that I can act. If I can’t,
 I’ll come home.”

5

 “It seems to me, Tom, that Margaret has a pretty
 good idea of what she’s doing,” Mrs. Lane said. “She
 sounds sensible and practical. If she were all starry-eyed
 and expected to see her name in lights in a few
 weeks, I’d vote against her going, but I’m beginning
 to think that maybe she’s right about this being the
 best time.”


 “Oh, Mother!” Peggy shouted, jumping down from
 the stool and throwing her arms about her mother’s
 neck. “I knew you’d understand! And you understand
 too, don’t you, Dad?” she appealed.


 Her father replied in little puffs as he drew on his
 pipe to get it started. “I ... never said ... I didn’t
 ... understand you ... did I?” His pipe satisfactorily
 sending up thick clouds of fragrant smoke, he
 took it out of his mouth before continuing more
 evenly.


 “Peg, your mother and I are cautious only because
 we love you so much and want what’s going to make
 you happy. At the same time, we want to spare you
 any unnecessary unhappiness along the way. Remember,
 I’m not a complete stranger to show business.
 Before I came out here to Rockport to edit the
Eagle
,
 I worked as a reporter on one of the best papers in
 New York. I saw a lot ... I met a lot of actors and
 actresses ... and I know how hard the city often
 was for them. But I don’t want to protect you from
 life. That’s no good either. Just let me think about it
 a little longer and let me talk to your mother some
 more.”

6

 Mrs. Lane patted Peggy’s arm and said, “We won’t
 keep you in suspense long, dear. Why don’t you go
 out for a walk for a while and let us go over the situation
 quietly? We’ll decide before bedtime.”


 Peggy nodded silently and walked to the kitchen
 door, where she paused to say, “I’m just going out to
 the barn to see if Socks is all right for the night. Then
 maybe I’ll go down to Jean’s for a while.”


 As she stepped out into the soft summer dusk she
 turned to look back just in time to see her mother
 throw her a comically exaggerated wink of assurance.
 Feeling much better, Peggy shut the screen door behind
 her and started for the barn.


 Ever since she had been a little girl, the barn had
 been Peggy’s favorite place to go to be by herself and
 think. Its musty but clean scent of straw and horses
 and leather made her feel calm and alive. Breathing
 in its odor gratefully, she walked into the half-dark to
 Socks’s stall. As the little bay horse heard her coming,
 she stamped one foot and softly whinnied a greeting.
 Peggy stopped first at the bag that hung on the wall
 among the bridles and halters and took out a lump of
 sugar as a present. Then, after stroking Socks’s silky
 nose, she held out her palm with the sugar cube.
 Socks took it eagerly and pushed her nose against
 Peggy’s hand in appreciation.


 As Peggy mixed some oats and barley for her pet
 and checked to see that there was enough straw in
 the stall, she thought about her life in Rockport and
 the new life that she might soon be going to.

7

 Rockport, Wisconsin, was a fine place, as pretty a
 small town as any girl could ask to grow up in. And
 not too small, either, Peggy thought. Its 16,500 people
 supported good schools, an excellent library, and two
 good movie houses. What’s more, the Rockport Community
 College attracted theater groups and concert
 artists, so that life in the town had always been stimulating.
 And of course, all of this was in addition to the
 usual growing-up pleasures of swimming and sailing,
 movie dates, and formal dances—everything that a
 girl could want.


 Peggy had lived all her life here, knew every tree-shaded
 street, every country road, field, lake, and
 stream. All of her friends were here, friends she had
 known since her earliest baby days. It would be hard
 to leave them, she knew, but there was no doubt in
 her mind that she was going to do so. If not now, then
 as soon as she possibly could.


 It was not any dissatisfaction with her life, her
 friends, or her home that made Peggy want to leave
 Rockport. She was not running away from anything,
 she reminded herself; she was running
to
something.


 To what? To the bright lights, speeding taxis, glittering
 towers of a make-believe movie-set New York?
 Would it really be like that? Or would it be something
 different, something like the dreary side-street
 world of failure and defeat that she had also seen in
 movies?

8

 Seeing the image of herself hungry and tired, going
 from office to office looking for a part in a play,
 Peggy suddenly laughed aloud and brought herself
 back to reality, to the warm barn smell and the big,
 soft-eyed gaze of Socks. She threw her arm around
 the smooth bay neck and laid her face next to the
 horse’s cheek.


 “Socks,” she murmured, “I need some of your horse
 sense if I’m going to go out on my own! We’ll go
 for a fast run in the morning and see if some fresh air
 won’t clear my silly mind!”


 With a final pat, she left the stall and the barn behind,
 stepping out into the deepening dusk. It was
 still too early to go back to the house to see if her parents
 had reached a decision about her future. Fighting
 down an impulse to rush right into the kitchen to
 see how they were coming along, Peggy continued
 down the driveway and turned left on the slate sidewalk
 past the front porch of her family’s old farmhouse
 and down the street toward Jean Wilson’s
 house at the end of the block.


 As she walked by her own home, she noticed with
 a familiar tug at her heart how the lilac bushes on
 the front lawn broke up the light from the windows
 behind them into a pattern of leafy lace. For a moment,
 or maybe a little more, she wondered why she
 wanted to leave this. What for? What could ever be
 better?

9
II
Dramatic Decision
Upstairs at the Wilsons’, Peggy found Jean swathed
 in bath towels, washing her long, straight red hair,
 which was now white with lather and piled up in a
 high, soapy knot.


 “You just washed it yesterday!” Peggy said. “Are
 you doing it again—or still?”


 Jean grinned, her eyes shut tight against the soapsuds.
 “Again, I’m afraid,” she answered. “Maybe it’s
 a nervous habit!”


 “It’s a wonder you’re not bald, with all the rubbing
 you give your hair,” Peggy said with a laugh.


 “Well, if I do go bald, at least it will be with a
 clean scalp!” Jean answered with a humorous crinkle
 of her freckled nose. Taking a deep breath and puffing
 out her cheeks comically, she plunged her head
 into the basin and rinsed off the soap with a shampoo
 hose. When she came up at last, dripping-wet
 hair was tightly plastered to the back of her head.


 “There!” she announced. “Don’t I look beautiful?”

10

 After a brisk rubdown with one towel, Jean rolled
 another dry towel around her head like an Indian
 turban. Then, having wrapped herself in an ancient,
 tattered, plaid bathrobe, she led Peggy out of the
 steamy room and into her cozy, if somewhat cluttered,
 bedroom. When they had made themselves
 comfortable on the pillow-strewn daybeds, Jean came
 straight to the point.


 “So the grand debate is still going on, is it? When
 do you think they’ll make up their minds?” she asked.


 “How do you know they haven’t decided anything
 yet?” Peggy said, in a puzzled tone.


 “Oh, that didn’t take much deduction, my dear
 Watson,” Jean laughed. “If they had decided against
 the New York trip, your face would be as long as
 Socks’s nose, and it’s not half that long. And if the answer
 was yes, I wouldn’t have to wait to hear about it!
 You would have been flying around the room and
 talking a mile a minute. So I figured that nothing was
 decided yet.”


 “You know, if I were as smart as you,” Peggy said
 thoughtfully, “I would have figured out a way to convince
 Mother and Dad by now.”


 “Oh, don’t feel bad about being dumb,” Jean said in
 mock tones of comfort. “If I were as pretty and talented
 as you are, I wouldn’t need brains, either!”
 With a hoot of laughter, she rolled quickly aside on
 the couch to avoid the pillow that Peggy threw at
 her.


 A short, breathless pillow fight followed, leaving
 the girls limp with laughter and with Jean having to
 retie her towel turban. From her new position, flat on
 the floor, Peggy looked up at her friend with a rueful
 smile.

11

 “You know, I sometimes think that we haven’t
 grown up at all!” she said. “I can hardly blame my
 parents for thinking twice—and a lot more—before
 treating me like an adult.”


 “Nonsense!” Jean replied firmly. “Your parents
 know a lot better than to confuse being stuffy with
 being grown-up and responsible. And, besides, I
 know that they’re not the least bit worried about your
 being able to take care of yourself. I heard them talking
 with my folks last night, and they haven’t got a
 doubt in the world about you. But they know how
 hard it can be to get a start as an actress, and they
 want to be sure that you have a profession in case
 you don’t get a break in show business.”


 “I know,” Peggy answered. “We had a long talk
 about it this evening after dinner.” Then she told her
 friend about the conversation and her proposed “bargain”
 with her parents.


 “They both seemed to think it was fair,” she concluded,
 “and when I went out, they were talking it
 over. They promised me an answer by bedtime, and
 I’m over here waiting until the jury comes in with its
 decision. You know,” she said suddenly, sitting up
 on the floor and crossing her legs under her, “I bet
 they wouldn’t hesitate a minute if you would only
 change your mind and decide to come with me and
 try it too!”

12

 After a moment’s thoughtful silence, Jean answered
 slowly, “No, Peg. I’ve thought this all out before,
 and I know it would be as wrong for me as it is
 right for you. I know we had a lot of fun in the dramatic
 groups, and I guess I was pretty good as a
 comedienne in a couple of the plays, but I know I
 haven’t got the real professional thing—and I know
 that you have. In fact, the only professional talent I
 think I do have for the theater is the ability to recognize
 talent when I see it—and to recognize that it’s
 not there when it isn’t!”


 “But, Jean,” Peggy protested, “you can handle
 comedy and character lines as well as anyone I
 know!”


 Jean nodded, accepting the compliment and seeming
 at the same time to brush it off. “That doesn’t
 matter. You know even better than I that there’s a lot
 more to being an actress—a successful one—than
 reading lines well. There’s the ability to make the
 audience sit up and notice you the minute you walk
 on, whether you have lines or not. And that’s something
 you can’t learn; you either have it, or you
 don’t. It’s like being double-jointed. I can make an
 audience laugh when I have good lines, but you can
 make them look at you and respond to you and be
 with you all the way, even with bad lines. That’s
 why you’re going to go to New York and be an actress.
 And that’s why I’m not.”


 “But, Jean—” Peggy began.

13

 “No buts!” Jean cut in. “We’ve talked about this
 enough before, and I’m not going to change my
 mind. I’m as sure about what I want as you are about
 what you want. I’m going to finish college and get my
 certificate as an English teacher.”


 “And what about acting? Can you get it out of
 your mind as easily as all that?” Peggy asked.


 “That’s the dark and devious part of my plan,”
 Jean answered with a mysterious laugh that ended in
 a comic witch’s cackle and an unconvincing witch-look
 that was completely out of place on her round,
 freckled face. “Once I get into a high school as an
 English teacher, I’m going to try to teach a special
 course in the literature of the theater and maybe another
 one in stagecraft. I’m going to work with the
 high-school drama group and put on plays. That way,
 I’ll be in a spot where I can use my special talent of
 recognizing talent. And that way,” she added, becoming
 much more serious, “I have a chance really to
 do something for the theater. If I can help and encourage
 one or two people with real talent like yours,
 then I’ll feel that I’ve really done something worth
 while.”


 Peggy nodded silently, not trusting herself to
 speak for fear of saying something foolishly sentimental,
 or even of crying. Her friend’s earnestness about
 the importance of her work and her faith in Peggy’s
 talent had touched her more than she could say.

14

 The silence lasted what seemed a terribly long
 time, until Jean broke it by suddenly jumping up and
 flinging a last pillow which she had been hiding behind
 her back. Running out of the bedroom, she
 called, “Come on! I’ll race you down to the kitchen
 for cocoa! By the time we’re finished, it’ll be about
 time for your big Hour of Decision scene!”
It was nearly ten o’clock when Peggy finally felt
 that her parents had had enough time to talk things
 out. Leaving the Wilson house, she walked slowly
 despite her eagerness, trying in all fairness to give her
 mother and father every minute she could. Reaching
 her home, she cut across the lawn behind the lilac
 bushes, to the steps up to the broad porch that
 fronted the house. As she climbed the steps, she
 heard her father’s voice raised a little above its normal
 soft, deep tone, but she could not make out the
 words.


 Crossing the porch, she caught sight of him
 through the window. He was speaking on the telephone,
 and now she caught his words.


 “Fine. Yes.... Yes—I think we can. Very
 well, day after tomorrow, then. That’s right—all
 three of us. And, May—it’ll be good to see you again,
 after all these years! Good-by.”


 As Peggy entered the room, her father put down
 the phone and turned to Mrs. Lane. “Well, Betty,”
 he said, “it’s all set.”


 “What’s all set, Dad?” Peggy said, breaking into a
 run to her father’s side.

15

 “Everything’s all set, Peg,” her father said with a
 grin. “And it’s set just the way you wanted it! There’s
 not a man in the world who can hold out against
 two determined women.” He leaned back against the
 fireplace mantel, waiting for the explosion he felt
 sure was to follow his announcement. But Peggy just
 stood, hardly moving a muscle. Then she walked
 carefully, as if she were on the deck of a rolling ship,
 to the big easy chair and slowly sat down.


 “Well, for goodness’ sake!” her mother cried.
 “Where’s the enthusiasm?”


 Peggy swallowed hard before answering. When
 her voice came, it sounded strange, about two tones
 higher than usual. “I ... I’m trying to be sedate ... and
 poised ... and very grown-up,” she said.
 “But it’s not easy. All I want to do is to—” and she
 jumped out of the chair—“to yell
whoopee
!” She
 yelled at the top of her lungs.


 After the kisses, the hugs, and the first excitement,
 Peggy and her parents adjourned to the kitchen, the
 favorite household conference room, for cookies and
 milk and more talk.


 “Now, tell me, Dad,” Peggy asked, her mouth full
 of oatmeal cookies, no longer “sedate” or “poised,”
 but her natural, bubbling self. “Who was that on the
 phone, and where are the three of us going, and
 what’s all set?”

16

 “One thing at a time,” her father said. “To begin
 with, we decided almost as soon as you left that we
 were going to let you go to New York to try a year’s
 experience in the theater. But then we had to decide
 just where you would live, and where you should
 study, and how much money you would need, and a
 whole lot of other things. So I called New York to talk
 to an old friend of mine who I felt would be able to
 give us some help. Her name is May Berriman, and
 she’s spent all her life in the theater. In fact, she was
 a very successful actress. Now she’s been retired for
 some years, but I thought she might give us some
 good advice.”


 “And did she?” Peggy asked.


 “We were luckier than I would have thought possible,”
 Mrs. Lane put in. “It seems that May bought a
 big, old-fashioned town house and converted it into
 a rooming house especially for young actresses. She
 always wanted a house of her own with a garden in
 back, but felt it was foolish for a woman living alone.
 This way, she can afford to run a big place and at
 the same time not be alone. And best of all, she says
 she has a room that you can have!”


 “Oh, Mother! It sounds wonderful!” Peggy exulted.
 “I’ll be with other girls my own age who are actresses,
 and living with an experienced actress! I’ll bet she
 can teach me loads!”


 “I’m sure she can,” her father said. “And so can
 the New York Dramatic Academy.”


 “Dad!” Peggy shouted, almost choking on a cooky.
 “Don’t tell me you’ve managed to get me accepted
 there! That’s the best dramatic school in the country!
 How—?”

17

 “Don’t get too excited, Peg,” Mr. Lane interrupted.
 “You’re not accepted anywhere yet, but May
 Berriman told me that the Academy is the best place
 to study acting, and she said she would set up an
 audition for you in two days. The term starts in a
 couple of weeks, so there isn’t much time to lose.”


 “Two days! Do you mean we’ll be going to New
 York day after tomorrow, just like that?”


 “Oh, no,” her mother answered calmly. “We’re going
 to New York tomorrow on the first plane that we
 can get seats on. Your father doesn’t believe in wasting
 time, once his mind is made up.”


 “Tomorrow?” Peggy repeated, almost unable to believe
 what she had heard. “What are we sitting here
 talking for, then? I’ve got a million things to do! I’ve
 got to get packed ... I’ve got to think of what to
 read for the audition! I can study on the plane, I
 guess, but ... oh! I’ll be terrible in a reading unless
 I can have more time! Oh, Mother, what parts
 will I do? Where’s the Shakespeare? Where’s—”


 “Whoa!” Mr. Lane said, catching Peggy’s arm to
 prevent her from rushing out of the kitchen. “Not
 now, young lady! We’ll pack in the morning, talk
 about what you should read, and take an afternoon
 plane to New York. But tonight, you’d better think
 of nothing more than getting to bed. This is going to
 be a busy time for all of us.”


 Reluctantly, Peggy agreed, recognizing the sense
 of what her father said. She finished her milk and
 cookies, kissed her parents good night and went upstairs
 to bed.


 But it was one thing to go to bed and another to
 go to sleep.

18

 Peggy lay on her back, staring at the ceiling and
 the patterns of light and shade cast by the street
 lamp outside as it shone through the leaves of the big
 maple tree. As she watched the shifting shadows,
 she reviewed the roles she had played since her first
 time in a high-school play. Which should she refresh
 herself on? Which ones would she do best? And
 which ones were most suited to her now? She recognized
 that she had grown and developed past some
 of the roles which had once seemed perfectly suited
 to her talent and her appearance. But both had
 changed. She was certainly not a mature actress
 yet, from any point of view, but neither was she a
 schoolgirl. Her trim figure was well formed; her face
 had lost the undefined, simple cuteness of the early
 teens, and had gained character. She didn’t think she
 should read a young romantic part like Juliet. Not
 that she couldn’t do it, but perhaps something
 sharper was called for.


 Perhaps Viola in
Twelfth Night
? Or perhaps not
 Shakespeare at all. Maybe the people at the Academy
 would think she was too arty or too pretentious?
 Maybe she should do something dramatic and full of
 stormy emotion, like Blanche in
A Streetcar Named
 Desire
? Or, better for her development and age, a
 light, brittle, comedy role...?

19

 Nothing seemed quite right. Peggy’s thoughts
 shifted with the shadows overhead. All the plays she
 had ever seen or read or acted in melted together in
 a blur, until the characters from one seemed to be
 talking with the characters from another and moving
 about in an enormous set made of pieces from two or
 three different plays. More actors kept coming on in
 a fantastic assortment of costumes until the stage was
 full. Then the stage lights dimmed, the actors joined
 hands across the stage to bow, the curtain slowly
 descended, the lights went out—and Peggy was fast
 asleep.


Question: Why did Mrs. Lane give up her dream of singing?

Debater A: I claim the answer is She didn’t believe she could be good at it and gave up.
Debater B: I claim the answer is She didn’t have time to study and practice.
---------------------------------------------

Debater A: Mrs. Lane gave up her dream of singing because she didn't believe she could be good at it and gave up. The story clearly states that she felt she wasn't quite good enough or didn't want it hard enough to put in the necessary study and practice. Mrs. Lane herself admits this when she says: <quote>I guess I wasn’t quite good enough or else I didn’t really want it hard enough—to go on with all the study and practice it needed.</quote> She recognized her
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: I argue that Mrs. Lane gave up her dream of singing because she didn't have time to study and practice. The story explicitly states that she had other responsibilities and obligations that prevented her from pursuing her dream of becoming a singer. When Peggy asks her mother if she can get acting out of her mind as easily as singing, Mrs. Lane responds: <quote>“Once I get into a high school as an English teacher, I’m going to try to teach a special course in the literature of
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <CONTINUE> Both debaters have provided evidence to support their claims. A argues that Mrs. Lane gave up her dream of singing because she didn't believe she could be good at it and gave up, citing Mrs. Lane's own admission that she wasn't quite good enough or didn't want it hard enough. B argues that Mrs. Lane gave up her dream because she didn't have time to study and practice, pointing to her other responsibilities and obligations. 

A, can you address B's argument about Mrs. Lane's lack of time to study and practice? And B, can you respond to A's argument about Mrs. Lane's belief in her own abilities? 

Probabilities: [0.5, 0.5]
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: A, I understand your argument about Mrs. Lane not believing she could be good enough to pursue her dream of singing. However, I believe that the evidence more strongly supports the claim that she gave up her dream because she didn't have time to study and practice. The story clearly states that Mrs. Lane had other responsibilities and obligations, such as becoming an English teacher and teaching a special course in the literature of the theater. This suggests that she prioritized her career as a teacher over pursuing her dream
---------------------------------------------
Debater A: B, I understand your argument about Mrs. Lane's lack of time to study and practice due to her other responsibilities. However, her own admission that she wasn't quite good enough and didn lack the necessary dedication suggests that her belief in her own abilities played a significant role in giving up her dream of singing. She says, <quote> I guess I wasn't quite good enough or else I didn't really want it hard enough</quote>. This indicates that she didn't believe she had the talent
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <CONTINUE> Thank you both for your responses. A, you argue that Mrs. Lane's belief in her own abilities played a significant role in giving up her dream of singing. B, you argue that Mrs. Lane's lack of time to study and practice due to her other responsibilities was the main reason for giving up. 

A, can you address B's argument about Mrs. Lane's lack of time to study and practice? Is there any evidence in the story that supports this claim? 

B, can you respond to A's argument about Mrs. Lane's belief in her own abilities? Is there any evidence in the story that suggests she didn't believe she had the talent or dedication required? 

Probabilities: [0.5, 0.5]
---------------------------------------------
Debater A: B, the evidence from the story does not support your claim that Mrs. Lane gave up her dream of singing because she didn't have time to study and practice. The story clearly states that her reason for giving up was her lack of belief in her own abilities and her dedication to pursuing a career in singing. She admits that she wasn't quite good enough and didn story="PEGGY FINDS THE THEATER\nI\nDramatic Dialogue\n“Of course, this is no surprise to us
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: A, while Mrs. Lane does mention her lack of time to study and practice in pursuing a career in singing, she also mentions another important factor that contributed to her decision. She says, <quote>I guess I wasn’t quite good enough or else I didn’t really want it hard enough—to go on with all the study and practice it needed.</quote> This indicates that it was not solely a lack of time, but also a lack of belief in her own abilities and dedication to pursue a career
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <CONTINUE> Thank you both for your responses. A, you argue that Mrs. Lane's lack of belief in her own abilities and dedication to pursuing a career in singing was the main reason for giving up. B, you argue that Mrs. Lane's lack of time to study and practice due to her other responsibilities was the main reason for giving up. 

A, you mentioned that Mrs. Lane's lack of belief in her own abilities and dedication is supported by her admission in the story. However, B also pointed out that Mrs. Lane mentioned her lack of time to study and practice as a contributing factor. Is there any evidence in the story that supports the claim that Mrs. Lane didn't have enough time to pursue her dream of singing? 

B, you mentioned that Mrs. Lane's lack of time to study and practice is supported by her other responsibilities and obligations mentioned in the story. However, A argues that Mrs. Lane's lack of belief in her own abilities and dedication played a significant role. Is there any evidence in the story that suggests Mrs. Lane didn't believe she had the talent or dedication required? 

Probabilities: [0.5, 0.5]
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: A, there is evidence in the story that suggests Mrs. Lane didn't believe she had the talent or dedication required to pursue her dream of singing. When Peggy asks her mother if she can get acting out of her mind as easily as singing, Mrs. Lane responds: <quote>“Once I get into a high school as an English teacher, I’m going to try to teach a special course in the literature of the theater and maybe another one in stagecraft. I’m going to work with
---------------------------------------------
Debater A: B, while it is true that Mrs. Lane mentions her other responsibilities and obligations as contributing factors to her decision, it is important to note that her lack of belief in her own abilities and dedication is the main reason for giving up her dream of singing. She herself admits that she wasn't quite good enough or didn didn't really want it hard enough. She says, <quote>I guess I wasn't quite good enough or else I didn't really want it hard enough—to go on with all the
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <CONTINUE> Thank you both for your responses. A, you argue that Mrs. Lane's lack of belief in her own abilities and dedication is the main reason for giving up her dream of singing, citing her own admission in the story. B, you argue that Mrs. Lane's lack of time to study and practice is supported by her other responsibilities and obligations mentioned in the story. 

A, while Mrs. Lane does mention her lack of belief in her own abilities and dedication, B also points out that her other responsibilities and obligations contribute to her decision. Is there any evidence in the story that supports the claim that Mrs. Lane didn't have enough time to pursue her dream of singing? 

B, while Mrs. Lane does mention her other responsibilities and obligations, A argues that her lack of belief in her own abilities and dedication is the main reason for giving up. Is there any evidence in the story that suggests Mrs. Lane didn't believe she had the talent or dedication required? 

Probabilities: [0.5, 0.5]
---------------------------------------------
Debater A: B, I understand your argument about Mrs. Lane's lack of time to study and practice due to her other responsibilities. However, her own admission that she wasn't quite good enough and didn't really want it hard enough suggests that her lack of belief in her own abilities and dedication played a significant role in giving up her dream of singing. She says, <quote>I guess I wasn't quite good enough or else I didn't really want it hard enough—to go on with all the study and practice
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: A, while Mrs. Lane does mention her lack of belief in her own abilities and dedication, it is important to note that her other responsibilities and obligations also played a significant role in giving up her dream of singing. She mentions that she didn't have enough time to study and practice because she was focused on becoming an English teacher and teaching a special course in the literature of the theater. This suggests that her commitment to her teaching career was a primary reason for giving up her dream of singing. Additionally,
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <VOTING> Thank you both for your arguments. A, you argue that Mrs. Lane's lack of belief in her own abilities and dedication is the main reason for giving up her dream of singing, citing her own admission in the story. B, you argue that Mrs. Lane's lack of time to study and practice is supported by her other responsibilities and obligations mentioned in the story.

After considering both arguments, I find that B's argument is more convincing. While A presents evidence of Mrs. Lane's lack of belief in her own abilities and dedication, B provides stronger evidence from the story that Mrs. Lane's other responsibilities and obligations, such as becoming an English teacher and teaching a special course in the literature of the theater, prevented her from pursuing her dream of singing. This suggests that her commitment to her teaching career was a primary reason for giving up her dream.

Probabilities: [0.4, 0.6]