
Context:

Fallout is, of course, always disastrous—
 
one way or another
JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT
BY WILLIAM LEE
ILLUSTRATED BY SCHOENHERR
"What would you think," I asked
 Marjorie over supper, "if I should undertake
 to lead a junior achievement
 group this summer?"


 She pondered it while she went to
 the kitchen to bring in the dessert.
 It was dried apricot pie, and very
 tasty, I might add.


 "Why, Donald," she said, "it could
 be quite interesting, if I understand
 what a junior achievement group is.
 What gave you the idea?"


 "It wasn't my idea, really," I admitted.
 "Mr. McCormack called me
 to the office today, and told me that
 some of the children in the lower
 grades wanted to start one. They
 need adult guidance of course, and
 one of the group suggested my name."


 I should explain, perhaps, that I
 teach a course in general science in
 our Ridgeville Junior High School,
 and another in general physics in the
 Senior High School. It's a privilege
 which I'm sure many educators must
 envy, teaching in Ridgeville, for our
 new school is a fine one, and our
 academic standards are high. On the
 other hand, the fathers of most of
 my students work for the Commission
 and a constant awareness of the Commission
 and its work pervades the
 town. It is an uneasy privilege then,
 at least sometimes, to teach my old-fashioned
 brand of science to these
 children of a new age.


 "That's very nice," said Marjorie.
 "What does a junior achievement
 group do?"


 "It has the purpose," I told her,
 "of teaching the members something
 about commerce and industry. They
 manufacture simple compositions
 like polishing waxes and sell them
 from door-to-door. Some groups have
 built up tidy little bank accounts
 which are available for later educational
 expenses."


 "Gracious, you wouldn't have to
 sell from door-to-door, would you?"


 "Of course not. I'd just tell the
 kids how to do it."


 Marjorie put back her head and
 laughed, and I was forced to join her,
 for we both recognize that my understanding
 and "feel" for commercial
 matters—if I may use that expression—is
 almost nonexistent.


 "Oh, all right," I said, "laugh at
 my commercial aspirations. But don't
 worry about it, really. Mr. McCormack
 said we could get Mr. Wells from
 Commercial Department to help out
 if he was needed. There is one problem,
 though. Mr. McCormack is going
 to put up fifty dollars to buy any
 raw materials wanted and he rather
 suggested that I might advance another
 fifty. The question is, could we
 do it?"


 Marjorie did mental arithmetic.
 "Yes," she said, "yes, if it's something
 you'd like to do."


 We've had to watch such things
 rather closely for the last ten—no,
 eleven years. Back in the old Ridgeville,
 fifty-odd miles to the south, we
 had our home almost paid for, when
 the accident occurred. It was in the
 path of the heaviest fallout, and we
 couldn't have kept on living there
 even if the town had stayed. When
 Ridgeville moved to its present site,
 so, of course, did we, which meant
 starting mortgage payments all over
 again.
Thus it was that on a Wednesday
 morning about three weeks later, I
 was sitting at one end of a plank picnic
 table with five boys and girls
 lined up along the sides. This was to
 be our headquarters and factory for
 the summer—a roomy unused barn
 belonging to the parents of one of
 the group members, Tommy Miller.


 "O.K.," I said, "let's relax. You
 don't need to treat me as a teacher,
 you know. I stopped being a school
 teacher when the final grades went in
 last Friday. I'm on vacation now. My
 job here is only to advise, and I'm
 going to do that as little as possible.
 You're going to decide what to do,
 and if it's safe and legal and possible
 to do with the starting capital we
 have, I'll go along with it and help
 in any way I can. This is your meeting."


 Mr. McCormack had told me, and
 in some detail, about the youngsters
 I'd be dealing with. The three who
 were sitting to my left were the ones
 who had proposed the group in the
 first place.


 Doris Enright was a grave young
 lady of ten years, who might, I
 thought, be quite a beauty in a few
 more years, but was at the moment
 rather angular—all shoulders and elbows.
 Peter Cope, Jr. and Hilary Matlack
 were skinny kids, too. The three
 were of an age and were all tall for
 ten-year-olds.


 I had the impression during that
 first meeting that they looked rather
 alike, but this wasn't so. Their features
 were quite different. Perhaps
 from association, for they were close
 friends, they had just come to have
 a certain similarity of restrained gesture
 and of modulated voice. And
 they were all tanned by sun and wind
 to a degree that made their eyes seem
 light and their teeth startlingly white.


 The two on my right were cast in
 a different mold. Mary McCready
 was a big husky redhead of twelve,
 with a face full of freckles and an
 infectious laugh, and Tommy Miller,
 a few months younger, was just an
 average, extroverted, well adjusted
 youngster, noisy and restless, tee-shirted
 and butch-barbered.


 The group exchanged looks to see
 who would lead off, and Peter Cope
 seemed to be elected.


 "Well, Mr. Henderson, a junior
 achievement group is a bunch of kids
 who get together to manufacture and
 sell things, and maybe make some
 money."


 "Is that what you want to do," I
 asked, "make money?"


 "Why not?" Tommy asked.
 "There's something wrong with making
 money?"


 "Well, sure, I suppose we want to,"
 said Hilary. "We'll need some money
 to do the things we want to do later."


 "And what sort of things would
 you like to make and sell?" I asked.


 The usual products, of course, with
 these junior achievement efforts, are
 chemical specialties that can be made
 safely and that people will buy and
 use without misgivings—solvent to
 free up rusty bolts, cleaner to remove
 road tar, mechanic's hand soap—that
 sort of thing. Mr. McCormack had
 told me, though, that I might find
 these youngsters a bit more ambitious.
 "The Miller boy and Mary McCready,"
 he had said, "have exceptionally
 high IQ's—around one forty
 or one fifty. The other three are hard
 to classify. They have some of the
 attributes of exceptional pupils, but
 much of the time they seem to have
 little interest in their studies. The
 junior achievement idea has sparked
 their imaginations. Maybe it'll be just
 what they need."


 Mary said, "Why don't we make a
 freckle remover? I'd be our first customer."
"The thing to do," Tommy offered,
 "is to figure out what people in
 Ridgeville want to buy, then sell it
 to them."


 "I'd like to make something by
 powder metallurgy techniques," said
 Pete. He fixed me with a challenging
 eye. "You should be able to make
 ball bearings by molding, then densify
 them by electroplating."


 "And all we'd need is a hydraulic
 press," I told him, "which, on a guess,
 might cost ten thousand dollars. Let's
 think of something easier."


 Pete mulled it over and nodded
 reluctantly. "Then maybe something
 in the electronics field. A hi-fi sub-assembly
 of some kind."


 "How about a new detergent?" Hilary
 put in.


 "Like the liquid dishwashing detergents?"
 I asked.


 He was scornful. "No, they're formulations—you
 know, mixtures.
 That's cookbook chemistry. I mean a
 brand new synthetic detergent. I've
 got an idea for one that ought to be
 good even in the hard water we've
 got around here."


 "Well, now," I said, "organic synthesis
 sounds like another operation
 calling for capital investment. If we
 should keep the achievement group
 going for several summers, it might
 be possible later on to carry out a
 safe synthesis of some sort. You're
 Dr. Matlack's son, aren't you? Been
 dipping into your father's library?"


 "Some," said Hilary, "and I've got
 a home laboratory."


 "How about you, Doris?" I prompted.
 "Do you have a special field of interest?"


 "No." She shook her head in mock
 despondency. "I'm not very technical.
 Just sort of miscellaneous. But if the
 group wanted to raise some mice, I'd
 be willing to turn over a project I've
 had going at home."


 "You could sell mice?" Tommy demanded
 incredulously.


 "Mice," I echoed, then sat back and
 thought about it. "Are they a pure
 strain? One of the recognized laboratory
 strains? Healthy mice of the
 right strain," I explained to Tommy,
 "might be sold to laboratories. I have
 an idea the Commission buys a supply
 every month."


 "No," said Doris, "these aren't laboratory
 mice. They're fancy ones. I
 got the first four pairs from a pet
 shop in Denver, but they're red—sort
 of chipmunk color, you know. I've
 carried them through seventeen generations
 of careful selection."


 "Well, now," I admitted, "the market
 for red mice might be rather limited.
 Why don't you consider making
 an after-shave lotion? Denatured alcohol,
 glycerine, water, a little color
 and perfume. You could buy some
 bottles and have some labels printed.
 You'd be in business before you
 knew it."


 There was a pause, then Tommy
 inquired, "How do you sell it?"


 "Door-to-door."


 He made a face. "Never build up
 any volume. Unless it did something
 extra. You say we'd put color in it.
 How about enough color to leave
 your face looking tanned. Men won't
 use cosmetics and junk, but if they
 didn't have to admit it, they might
 like the shave lotion."


 Hilary had been deep in thought.
 He said suddenly, "Gosh, I think I
 know how to make a—what do you
 want to call it—a before-shave lotion."


 "What would that be?" I asked.


 "You'd use it before you shaved."


 "I suppose there might be people
 who'd prefer to use it beforehand,"
 I conceded.


 "There will be people," he said
 darkly, and subsided.


 Mrs. Miller came out to the barn
 after a while, bringing a bucket of
 soft drinks and ice, a couple of loaves
 of bread and ingredients for a variety
 of sandwiches. The parents had
 agreed to underwrite lunches at the
 barn and Betty Miller philosophically
 assumed the role of commissary
 officer. She paused only to say hello
 and to ask how we were progressing
 with our organization meeting.


 I'd forgotten all about organization,
 and that, according to all the
 articles I had perused, is most important
 to such groups. It's standard practice
 for every member of the group
 to be a company officer. Of course a
 young boy who doesn't know any better,
 may wind up a sales manager.


 Over the sandwiches, then, I suggested
 nominating company officers,
 but they seemed not to be interested.
 Peter Cope waved it off by remarking
 that they'd each do what came
 naturally. On the other hand, they
 pondered at some length about a
 name for the organization, without
 reaching any conclusions, so we returned
 to the problem of what to
 make.


 It was Mary, finally, who advanced
 the thought of kites. At first there
 was little enthusiasm, then Peter said,
 "You know, we could work up something
 new. Has anybody ever seen a
 kite made like a wind sock?"


 Nobody had. Pete drew figures in
 the air with his hands. "How about
 the hole at the small end?"


 "I'll make one tonight," said Doris,
 "and think about the small end.
 It'll work out all right."


 I wished that the youngsters weren't
 starting out by inventing a new
 article to manufacture, and risking an
 almost certain disappointment, but to
 hold my guidance to the minimum, I
 said nothing, knowing that later I
 could help them redesign it along
 standard lines.
At supper I reviewed the day's
 happenings with Marjorie and tried
 to recall all of the ideas which had
 been propounded. Most of them were
 impractical, of course, for a group of
 children to attempt, but several of
 them appeared quite attractive.


 Tommy, for example, wanted to
 put tooth powder into tablets that
 one would chew before brushing the
 teeth. He thought there should be
 two colors in the same bottle—orange
 for morning and blue for night,
 the blue ones designed to leave the
 mouth alkaline at bed time.


 Pete wanted to make a combination
 nail and wood screw. You'd
 drive it in with a hammer up to the
 threaded part, then send it home with
 a few turns of a screwdriver.


 Hilary, reluctantly forsaking his
 ideas on detergents, suggested we
 make black plastic discs, like poker
 chips but thinner and as cheap as
 possible, to scatter on a snowy sidewalk
 where they would pick up extra
 heat from the sun and melt the
 snow more rapidly. Afterward one
 would sweep up and collect the discs.


 Doris added to this that if you
 could make the discs light enough to
 float, they might be colored white
 and spread on the surface of a reservoir
 to reduce evaporation.


 These latter ideas had made unknowing
 use of some basic physics,
 and I'm afraid I relapsed for a few
 minutes into the role of teacher and
 told them a little bit about the laws
 of radiation and absorption of heat.


 "My," said Marjorie, "they're really
 smart boys and girls. Tommy Miller
 does sound like a born salesman.
 Somehow I don't think you're going
 to have to call in Mr. Wells."


 I do feel just a little embarrassed
 about the kite, even now. The fact
 that it flew surprised me. That it flew
 so confoundedly well was humiliating.
 Four of them were at the barn
 when I arrived next morning; or
 rather on the rise of ground just beyond
 it, and the kite hung motionless
 and almost out of sight in the pale
 sky. I stood and watched for a moment,
 then they saw me.


 "Hello, Mr. Henderson," Mary said,
 and proffered the cord which was
 wound on a fishing reel. I played the
 kite up and down for a few minutes,
 then reeled it in. It was, almost exactly,
 a wind sock, but the hole at the
 small end was shaped—by wire—into
 the general form of a kidney bean.
 It was beautifully made, and had a
 sort of professional look about it.


 "It flies too well," Mary told Doris.
 "A kite ought to get caught in a tree
 sometimes."


 "You're right," Doris agreed. "Let's
 see it." She gave the wire at the small
 end the slightest of twists. "There, it
 ought to swoop."


 Sure enough, in the moderate
 breeze of that morning, the kite
 swooped and yawed to Mary's entire
 satisfaction. As we trailed back to the
 barn I asked Doris, "How did you
 know that flattening the lower edge
 of the hole would create instability?"
 She looked doubtful.


 "Why it would have to, wouldn't
 it? It changed the pattern of air pressures."
 She glanced at me quickly.
 "Of course, I tried a lot of different
 shapes while I was making it."


 "Naturally," I said, and let it go at
 that. "Where's Tommy?"


 "He stopped off at the bank," Pete
 Cope told me, "to borrow some money.
 We'll want to buy materials to
 make some of these kites."


 "But I said yesterday that Mr. McCormack
 and I were going to advance
 some cash to get started."


 "Oh, sure, but don't you think it
 would be better to borrow from a
 bank? More businesslike?"


 "Doubtless," I said, "but banks generally
 want some security." I would
 have gone on and explained matters
 further, except that Tommy walked
 in and handed me a pocket check
 book.


 "I got two hundred and fifty," he
 volunteered—not without a hint of
 complacency in his voice. "It didn't
 take long, but they sure made it out
 a big deal. Half the guys in the bank
 had to be called in to listen to the
 proposition. The account's in your
 name, Mr. Henderson, and you'll have
 to make out the checks. And they
 want you to stop in at the bank and
 give them a specimen signature. Oh,
 yes, and cosign the note."


 My heart sank. I'd never had any
 dealings with banks except in the
 matter of mortgages, and bank people
 make me most uneasy. To say
 nothing of finding myself responsible
 for a two-hundred-and-fifty-dollar
 note—over two weeks salary. I made
 a mental vow to sign very few checks.


 "So then I stopped by at Apex
 Stationers," Tommy went on, "and ordered
 some paper and envelopes. We
 hadn't picked a name yesterday, but I
 figured what's to lose, and picked one.
 Ridge Industries, how's that?" Everybody
 nodded.


 "Just three lines on the letterhead,"
 he explained. "Ridge Industries—Ridgeville—Montana."


 I got my voice back and said, "Engraved,
 I trust."


 "Well, sure," he replied. "You can't
 afford to look chintzy."
My appetite was not at its best
 that evening, and Marjorie recognized
 that something was concerning
 me, but she asked no questions, and
 I only told her about the success of
 the kite, and the youngsters embarking
 on a shopping trip for paper, glue
 and wood splints. There was no use
 in both of us worrying.


 On Friday we all got down to work,
 and presently had a regular production
 line under way; stapling the
 wood splints, then wetting them with
 a resin solution and shaping them
 over a mandrel to stiffen, cutting the
 plastic film around a pattern, assembling
 and hanging the finished kites
 from an overhead beam until the cement
 had set. Pete Cope had located
 a big roll of red plastic film from
 somewhere, and it made a wonderful-looking
 kite. Happily, I didn't know
 what the film cost until the first kites
 were sold.


 By Wednesday of the following
 week we had almost three hundred
 kites finished and packed into flat
 cardboard boxes, and frankly I didn't
 care if I never saw another. Tommy,
 who by mutual consent, was our
 authority on sales, didn't want to sell
 any until we had, as he put it, enough
 to meet the demand, but this quantity
 seemed to satisfy him. He said he
 would sell them the next week and
 Mary McCready, with a fine burst of
 confidence, asked him in all seriousness
 to be sure to hold out a dozen.


 Three other things occurred that
 day, two of which I knew about immediately.
 Mary brought a portable
 typewriter from home and spent part
 of the afternoon banging away at
 what seemed to me, since I use two
 fingers only, a very creditable speed.


 And Hilary brought in a bottle of
 his new detergent. It was a syrupy
 yellow liquid with a nice collar of
 suds. He'd been busy in his home
 laboratory after all, it seemed.


 "What is it?" I asked. "You never
 told us."


 Hilary grinned. "Lauryl benzyl
 phosphonic acid, dipotassium salt, in
 20% solution."


 "Goodness." I protested, "it's been
 twenty-five years since my last course
 in chemistry. Perhaps if I saw the
 formula—."


 He gave me a singularly adult
 smile and jotted down a scrawl of
 symbols and lines. It meant little to
 me.


 "Is it good?"


 For answer he seized the ice bucket,
 now empty of its soda bottles,
 trickled in a few drops from the bottle
 and swished the contents. Foam
 mounted to the rim and spilled over.
 "And that's our best grade of Ridgeville
 water," he pointed out. "Hardest
 in the country."


 The third event of Wednesday
 came to my ears on Thursday morning.


 I was a little late arriving at the
 barn, and was taken a bit aback to
 find the roadway leading to it rather
 full of parked automobiles, and the
 barn itself rather full of people, including
 two policemen. Our Ridgeville
 police are quite young men, but
 in uniform they still look ominous
 and I was relieved to see that they
 were laughing and evidently enjoying
 themselves.


 "Well, now," I demanded, in my
 best classroom voice. "What is all
 this?"


 "Are you Henderson?" the larger
 policeman asked.


 "I am indeed," I said, and a flash
 bulb went off. A young lady grasped
 my arm.


 "Oh, please, Mr. Henderson, come
 outside where it's quieter and tell me
 all about it."


 "Perhaps," I countered, "somebody
 should tell me."


 "You mean you don't know, honestly?
 Oh, it's fabulous. Best story I've
 had for ages. It'll make the city papers."
 She led me around the corner
 of the barn to a spot of comparative
 quiet.


 "You didn't know that one of your
 junior whatsisnames poured detergent
 in the Memorial Fountain basin
 last night?"


 I shook my head numbly.


 "It was priceless. Just before rush
 hour. Suds built up in the basin and
 overflowed, and down the library
 steps and covered the whole street.
 And the funniest part was they kept
 right on coming. You couldn't imagine
 so much suds coming from that
 little pool of water. There was a
 three-block traffic jam and Harry got
 us some marvelous pictures—men
 rolling up their trousers to wade
 across the street. And this morning,"
 she chortled, "somebody phoned in
 an anonymous tip to the police—of
 course it was the same boy that did
 it—Tommy—Miller?—and so here
 we are. And we just saw a demonstration
 of that fabulous kite and saw
 all those simply captivating mice."


 "Mice?"


 "Yes, of course. Who would ever
 have thought you could breed mice
 with those cute furry tails?"
Well, after a while things quieted
 down. They had to. The police left
 after sobering up long enough to
 give me a serious warning against
 letting such a thing happen again.
 Mr. Miller, who had come home to
 see what all the excitement was, went
 back to work and Mrs. Miller went
 back to the house and the reporter
 and photographer drifted off to file
 their story, or whatever it is they do.
 Tommy was jubilant.


 "Did you hear what she said? It'll
 make the city papers. I wish we had
 a thousand kites. Ten thousand. Oh
 boy, selling is fun. Hilary, when can
 you make some more of that stuff?
 And Doris, how many mice do you
 have?"


 Those mice! I have always kept
 my enthusiasm for rodents within
 bounds, but I must admit they were
 charming little beasts, with tails as
 bushy as miniature squirrels.


 "How many generations?" I asked
 Doris.


 "Seventeen. No, eighteen, now.
 Want to see the genetic charts?"


 I won't try to explain it as she did
 to me, but it was quite evident that
 the new mice were breeding true.
 Presently we asked Betty Miller to
 come back down to the barn for a
 conference. She listened and asked
 questions. At last she said, "Well, all
 right, if you promise me they can't
 get out of their cages. But heaven
 knows what you'll do when fall
 comes. They won't live in an unheated
 barn and you can't bring them
 into the house."


 "We'll be out of the mouse business
 by then," Doris predicted. "Every pet
 shop in the country will have
 them and they'll be down to nothing
 apiece."


 Doris was right, of course, in spite
 of our efforts to protect the market.
 Anyhow that ushered in our cage
 building phase, and for the next
 week—with a few interruptions—we
 built cages, hundreds of them, a good
 many for breeding, but mostly for
 shipping.


 It was rather regrettable that, after
 the
Courier
gave us most of the third
 page, including photographs, we rarely
 had a day without a few visitors.
 Many of them wanted to buy mice or
 kites, but Tommy refused to sell any
 mice at retail and we soon had to disappoint
 those who wanted kites. The
 Supermarket took all we had—except
 a dozen—and at a dollar fifty
 each. Tommy's ideas of pricing rather
 frightened me, but he set the value
 of the mice at ten dollars a pair
 and got it without any arguments.


 Our beautiful stationery arrived,
 and we had some invoice forms printed
 up in a hurry—not engraved, for
 a wonder.


 It was on Tuesday—following the
 Thursday—that a lanky young man
 disentangled himself from his car
 and strolled into the barn. I looked
 up from the floor where I was tacking
 squares of screening onto wooden
 frames.


 "Hi," he said. "You're Donald
 Henderson, right? My name is McCord—Jeff
 McCord—and I work in
 the Patent Section at the Commission's
 downtown office. My boss sent
 me over here, but if he hadn't, I
 think I'd have come anyway. What
 are you doing to get patent protection
 on Ridge Industries' new developments?"


 I got my back unkinked and dusted
 off my knees. "Well, now," I said,
 "I've been wondering whether something
 shouldn't be done, but I know
 very little about such matters—."


 "Exactly," he broke in, "we guessed
 that might be the case, and there are
 three patent men in our office who'd
 like to chip in and contribute some
 time. Partly for the kicks and partly
 because we think you may have some
 things worth protecting. How about
 it? You worry about the filing and
 final fees. That's sixty bucks per
 brainstorm. We'll worry about everything
 else."


 "What's to lose," Tommy interjected.


 And so we acquired a patent attorney,
 several of them, in fact.


 The day that our application on
 the kite design went to Washington,
 Mary wrote a dozen toy manufacturers
 scattered from New York to Los
 Angeles, sent a kite to each one and
 offered to license the design. Result,
 one licensee with a thousand dollar
 advance against next season's royalties.
It was a rainy morning about three
 weeks later that I arrived at the barn.
 Jeff McCord was there, and the whole
 team except Tommy. Jeff lowered his
 feet from the picnic table and said,
 "Hi."


 "Hi yourself," I told him. "You
 look pleased."


 "I am," he replied, "in a cautious
 legal sense, of course. Hilary and I
 were just going over the situation on
 his phosphonate detergent. I've spent
 the last three nights studying the patent
 literature and a few standard
 texts touching on phosphonates.
 There are a zillion patents on synthetic
 detergents and a good round
 fifty on phosphonates, but it looks"—he
 held up a long admonitory hand—"it
 just looks as though we had a clear
 spot. If we do get protection, you've
 got a real salable property."


 "That's fine, Mr. McCord," Hilary
 said, "but it's not very important."


 "No?" Jeff tilted an inquiring eyebrow
 at me, and I handed him a small
 bottle. He opened and sniffed at it
 gingerly. "What gives?"


 "Before-shave lotion," Hilary told
 him. "You've shaved this morning,
 but try some anyway."


 Jeff looked momentarily dubious,
 then puddled some in his palm and
 moistened his jaw line. "Smells
 good," he noted, "and feels nice and
 cool. Now what?"


 "Wipe your face." Jeff located a
 handkerchief and wiped, looked at
 the cloth, wiped again, and stared.


 "What is it?"


 "A whisker stiffener. It makes each
 hair brittle enough to break off right
 at the surface of your skin."


 "So I perceive. What is it?"


 "Oh, just a mixture of stuff. Cookbook
 chemistry. Cysteine thiolactone
 and a fat-soluble magnesium compound."


 "I see. Just a mixture of stuff. And
 do your whiskers grow back the next
 day?"


 "Right on schedule," I said.


 McCord unfolded his length and
 stood staring out into the rain. Presently
 he said, "Henderson, Hilary
 and I are heading for my office. We
 can work there better than here, and
 if we're going to break the hearts of
 the razor industry, there's no better
 time to start than now."


 When they had driven off I turned
 and said, "Let's talk a while. We can
 always clean mouse cages later.
 Where's Tommy?"


 "Oh, he stopped at the bank to get
 a loan."


 "What on earth for? We have over
 six thousand in the account."


 "Well," Peter said, looking a little
 embarrassed, "we were planning to
 buy a hydraulic press. You see, Doris
 put some embroidery on that scheme
 of mine for making ball bearings."
 He grabbed a sheet of paper. "Look,
 we make a roller bearing, this shape
 only it's a permanent magnet. Then
 you see—." And he was off.


 "What did they do today, dear?"
 Marge asked as she refilled my coffee
 cup.


 "Thanks," I said. "Let's see, it was
 a big day. We picked out a hydraulic
 press, Doris read us the first chapter
 of the book she's starting, and we
 found a place over a garage on
 Fourth Street that we can rent for
 winter quarters. Oh, yes, and Jeff is
 starting action to get the company
 incorporated."


 "Winter quarters," Marge repeated.
 "You mean you're going to try to
 keep the group going after school
 starts?"


 "Why not? The kids can sail
 through their courses without thinking
 about them, and actually they
 won't put in more than a few hours
 a week during the school year."


 "Even so, it's child labor, isn't it?"


 "Child labor nothing. They're the
 employers. Jeff McCord and I will
 be the only employees—just at first,
 anyway."


 Marge choked on something. "Did
 you say you'd be an employee?"


 "Sure," I told her. "They've offered
 me a small share of the company,
 and I'd be crazy to turn it down. After
 all, what's to lose?"
Transcriber's Note:
This etext was produced from
Analog Science Fact &amp; Fiction
July 1962.
 Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
 copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
 typographical errors have been corrected without note.


Question: How is Hilary's product going to kill the razor industry?

Debater A: I claim the answer is Before-shave dissolves whiskers permanently.
Debater B: I claim the answer is Before-shave breaks off whiskers, just apply and wipe away. 
---------------------------------------------

Debater A: Hilary's product, the before-shave lotion, is going to revolutionize the shaving industry. It doesn't just break off whiskers, as Debater B suggests. In the story, it is clearly stated that the lotion has the ability to dissolve whiskers permanently. Here is the quote from the story: <quote>"A whisker stiffener. It makes each hair brittle enough to break off right at the surface of your skin."</quote> This indicates that the lotion weakens the
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: Debater B: I disagree with Debater A's claim. The story clearly states that Hilary's product, the before-shave lotion, breaks off whiskers. Here is the quote from the story: <quote>"A whisker stiffener. It makes each hair brittle enough to break off right at the surface of your skin."</quote> This shows that the lotion has a mechanical effect on the whiskers by weakening them, causing them to break off easily. It does not mention anything
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <CONTINUE> Both debaters have provided quotes from the story to support their claims. However, there seems to be a disagreement on the interpretation of the quote. Debater A argues that the before-shave lotion dissolves whiskers permanently, while Debater B argues that it breaks off whiskers. 

Debater A, can you provide any additional evidence or context from the story to support your claim that the lotion dissolves whiskers permanently? 

Debater B, can you provide any additional evidence or context from the story to support your claim that the lotion breaks off whiskers? 

Probabilities: [0.5, 0.5]
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: Debater B: I stand by my previous claim that the before-shave lotion breaks off whiskers. While Debater A argues that the lotion dissolves whiskers permanently, there is no evidence in the story to support this claim. On the other hand, the quote from the story clearly states that the lotion makes the hair brittle enough to break off right at the surface of the skin: <quote>"A whisker stiffener. It makes each hair brittle enough to break off right at the
---------------------------------------------
Debater A: Debater A: I understand that Debater B disagrees with my interpretation, but I still maintain that the before-shave lotion in the story has the ability to dissolve whiskers permanently. The quote clearly states that it makes each hair brittle enough to break off at the surface of the skin. This suggests that the lotion has a chemical effect on the whiskers, weakening them to the point of dissolution. Here is the quote from the story: <quote>"A whisker stiffener. It makes
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <CONTINUE> Thank you both for your arguments. Debater A, I appreciate your interpretation that the before-shave lotion in the story has a chemical effect on the whiskers, weakening them to the point of dissolution. However, I would like to point out that the quote you provided does mention that the lotion makes the hair brittle enough to break off at the surface of the skin. This suggests a mechanical effect rather than a chemical dissolution.

Debater B, you have provided evidence from the story that supports your claim that the lotion breaks off whiskers. The quote you provided states that the lotion makes the hair brittle enough to break off at the surface of the skin.

Based on the evidence provided, it seems that both interpretations are plausible. However, the quote about the lotion making the hair brittle suggests a mechanical effect rather than a chemical dissolution. Therefore, I assign a higher probability to Debater B's answer that the before-shave lotion breaks off whiskers. 

Probabilities: [0.4, 0.6]
---------------------------------------------
Debater A: Debater B, I appreciate your counter argument. However, I would like to address your claim that the before-shave lotion breaks off whiskers. While the quote you provided does mention that the lotion makes the hair brittle enough to break off at the surface of the skin, it does not explicitly state that it is solely a mechanical effect. The quote indicates that the lotion weakens the hair, making it easier to break off, but it does not specify the exact mechanism. It is possible that
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: Debater A, I understand your point that the quote I provided does not explicitly state that the before-shave lotion breaks off whiskers. However, the quote does indicate that the lotion makes the hair brittle enough to break off at the surface of the skin. This suggests a mechanical effect on the whiskers. Additionally, the quote states that the lotion is a whisker stiffener, further supporting the idea that it has a mechanical impact on the hair. While it is possible that there may be
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <CONTINUE> Thank you both for your additional arguments. Debater A, I understand your point that the quote provided does not explicitly state the exact mechanism of how the before-shave lotion affects the whiskers. However, the quote does mention that the lotion makes the hair brittle enough to break off at the surface of the skin, which suggests a mechanical effect. 

Debater B, I appreciate your counter-argument and the evidence you provided from the story. The quote you mentioned does support the idea that the lotion has a mechanical impact on the whiskers by making them brittle enough to break off.

After considering both arguments and the evidence presented, I still find Debater B's interpretation more convincing. The quote about the lotion making the hair brittle suggests a mechanical effect rather than a chemical dissolution. Therefore, I assign a higher probability to Debater B's answer that the before-shave lotion breaks off whiskers.

Probabilities: [0.3, 0.7]
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: Debater B: I appreciate Debater A's response and their acknowledgment that the quote provided does not explicitly state the exact mechanism of how the before-shave lotion affects the whiskers. However, the quote does mention that the lotion makes the hair brittle enough to break off at the surface of the skin, suggesting a mechanical effect. 

Furthermore, it is important to note that in the context of the story, the before-shave lotion is described as a "whisker stiffener," which
---------------------------------------------
Debater A: Debater A: I understand Debater B's argument that the quote does mention that the lotion makes the hair brittle enough to break off at the surface of the skin, suggesting a mechanical effect. However, it is important to note that the quote also mentions that the lotion is a whisker stiffener. This suggests that the lotion has a specific purpose of making the whiskers stiff and brittle, which could potentially lead to their breakage. Here is the quote from the story: "A whisk
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <CONTINUE> Thank you both for your continued arguments. Debater B, I appreciate your response and the emphasis on the lotion being described as a "whisker stiffener" in the context of the story. This does support the idea of a mechanical effect on the whiskers.

Debater A, I understand your point about the lotion potentially having a specific purpose of making the whiskers stiff and brittle, which could lead to their breakage. However, the quote provided still suggests a mechanical effect of the lotion making the hair brittle enough to break off at the surface of the skin.

After carefully considering both arguments and the evidence presented, I maintain my previous stance that Debater B's interpretation is more convincing. The quote about the lotion making the hair brittle supports the idea of a mechanical effect. Therefore, I assign a higher probability to Debater B's answer that the before-shave lotion breaks off whiskers.

Probabilities: [0.3, 0.7]
---------------------------------------------
Debater A: Debater B, I appreciate your response. However, I would like to clarify my argument regarding the before-shave lotion. While the quote I provided does mention that the lotion is a whisker stiffener, it also indicates that the lotion makes the hair brittle enough to break off at the surface of the skin. Here is the quote from the story: "A whisker stiffener. It makes each hair brittle enough to break off right at the surface of your skin."

The term "brit
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: Debater B: I appreciate Debater A's response. However, I would like to address their argument that the quote provided suggests a chemical dissolution of the whiskers. While the quote does mention that the lotion makes the hair brittle enough to break off at the surface of the skin, it does not specify the exact mechanism. We cannot definitively conclude whether it is a chemical or mechanical effect based on that quote alone.

However, in terms of the overall context of the story, it is worth
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <VOTING> Thank you both for your final arguments. Debater A, I understand your argument that the quote provided suggests a chemical dissolution of the whiskers. However, the quote also mentions that the lotion makes the hair brittle enough to break off at the surface of the skin, which suggests a mechanical effect. 

Debater B, I appreciate your response and the emphasis on the overall context of the story. While the quote does not specify the exact mechanism, the description of the lotion as a "whisker stiffener" supports the idea of a mechanical effect on the whiskers.

After carefully considering both arguments and the evidence presented, I find Debater B's interpretation more convincing. The quote about the lotion making the hair brittle enough to break off, along with the context of the story, suggests a mechanical effect. Therefore, I assign a higher probability to Debater B's answer that the before-shave lotion breaks off whiskers.

Probabilities: [0.2, 0.8]