
Context:

PEN PAL
Illustrated by DON SIBLEY


 By MILTON LESSER


 [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from

 Galaxy Science Fiction July 1951.

 Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that

 the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]
All she wanted was a mate and she had the gumption

 to go out and hunt one down. But that meant

 poaching in a strictly forbidden territory!
The best that could be said for Matilda Penshaws was that she was
 something of a paradox. She was thirty-three years old, certainly not
 aged when you consider the fact that the female life expectancy is now
 up in the sixties, but the lines were beginning to etch their permanent
 paths across her face and now she needed certain remedial undergarments
 at which she would have scoffed ten or even five years ago. Matilda was
 also looking for a husband.


 This, in itself, was not unusual—but Matilda was so completely
 wrapped up in the romantic fallacy of her day that she sought a prince
 charming, a faithful Don Juan, a man who had been everywhere and tasted
 of every worldly pleasure and who now wanted to sit on a porch and
 talk about it all to Matilda.


 The fact that in all probability such a man did not exist disturbed
 Matilda not in the least. She had been known to say that there are over
 a billion men in the world, a goodly percentage of whom are eligible
 bachelors, and that the right one would come along simply because she
 had been waiting for him.


 Matilda, you see, had patience.


 She also had a fetish. Matilda had received her A.B. from exclusive
 Ursula Johns College and Radcliff had yielded her Masters degree, yet
 Matilda was an avid follower of the pen pal columns. She would read
 them carefully and then read them again, looking for the masculine
 names which, through a system known only to Matilda, had an affinity
 to her own. To the gentlemen upon whom these names were affixed,
 Matilda would write, and she often told her mother, the widow Penshaws,
 that it was in this way she would find her husband. The widow Penshaws
 impatiently told her to go out and get dates.
That particular night, Matilda pulled her battered old sedan into the
 garage and walked up the walk to the porch. The widow Penshaws was
 rocking on the glider and Matilda said hello.


 The first thing the widow Penshaws did was to take Matilda's left hand
 in her own and examine the next-to-the-last finger.


 "I thought so," she said. "I knew this was coming when I saw that look
 in your eye at dinner. Where is Herman's engagement ring?"


 Matilda smiled. "It wouldn't have worked out, Ma. He was too darned
 stuffy. I gave him his ring and said thanks anyway and he smiled
 politely and said he wished I had told him sooner because his fifteenth
 college reunion was this weekend and he had already turned down the
 invitation."


 The widow Penshaws nodded regretfully. "That was thoughtful of Herman
 to hide his feelings."


 "Hogwash!" said her daughter. "He has no true feelings. He's sorry that
 he had to miss his college reunion. That's all he has to hide. A stuffy
 Victorian prude and even less of a man than the others."


 "But, Matilda, that's your fifth broken engagement in three years. It
 ain't that you ain't popular, but you just don't want to cooperate.
 You don't
fall
in love, Matilda—no one does. Love osmoses into you
 slowly, without you even knowing, and it keeps growing all the time."


 Matilda admired her mother's use of the word osmosis, but she found
 nothing which was not objectionable about being unaware of the impact
 of love. She said good-night and went upstairs, climbed out of her
 light summer dress and took a cold shower.


 She began to hum to herself. She had not yet seen the pen pal section
 of the current
Literary Review
, and because the subject matter of
 that magazine was somewhat highbrow and cosmopolitan, she could expect
 a gratifying selection of pen pals.


 She shut off the shower, brushed her teeth, gargled, patted herself
 dry with a towel, and jumped into bed, careful to lock the door of her
 bedroom. She dared not let the widow Penshaws know that she slept in
 the nude; the widow Penshaws would object to a girl sleeping in the
 nude, even if the nearest neighbor was three hundred yards away.


 Matilda switched her bed lamp on and dabbed some citronella on each
 ear lobe and a little droplet on her chin (how she hated insects!).
 Then she propped up her pillows—two pillows partially stopped her
 post-nasal drip; and took the latest issue of the
Literary Review
off the night table.


 She flipped through the pages and came to personals. Someone in
 Nebraska wanted to trade match books; someone in New York needed a
 midwestern pen pal, but it was a woman; an elderly man interested in
 ornithology wanted a young chick correspondent interested in the same
 subject; a young, personable man wanted an editorial position because
 he thought he had something to offer the editorial world; and—
Matilda read the next one twice. Then she held it close to the light
 and read it again. The
Literary Review
was one of the few magazines
 which printed the name of the advertiser rather than a box number, and
 Matilda even liked the sound of the name. But mostly, she had to admit
 to herself, it was the flavor of the wording. This very well could be
it
. Or, that is,
him
.


 Intelligent, somewhat egotistical male who's really been around, whose
 universal experience can make the average cosmopolite look like a
 provincial hick, is in need of several female correspondents: must be
 intelligent, have gumption, be capable of listening to male who has a
 lot to say and wants to say it. All others need not apply. Wonderful
 opportunity cultural experience ... Haron Gorka, Cedar Falls, Ill.


 The man was egotistical, all right; Matilda could see that. But she had
 never minded an egotistical man, at least not when he had something
 about which he had a genuine reason to be egotistical. The man sounded
 as though he would have reason indeed. He only wanted the best because
 he was the best. Like calls to like.


 The name—Haron Gorka: its oddness was somehow beautiful to Matilda.
 Haron Gorka—the nationality could be anything. And that was it. He had
 no nationality for all intents and purposes; he was an international
 man, a figure among figures, a paragon....


 Matilda sighed happily as she put out the light. The moon shone in
 through the window brightly, and at such times Matilda generally would
 get up, go to the cupboard, pull out a towel, take two hairpins from
 her powder drawer, pin the towel to the screen of her window, and hence
 keep the disturbing moonlight from her eyes. But this time it did not
 disturb her, and she would let it shine. Cedar Falls was a small town
 not fifty miles from her home, and she'd get there a hop, skip, and
 jump ahead of her competitors, simply by arriving in person instead of
 writing a letter.


 Matilda was not yet that far gone in years or appearance. Dressed
 properly, she could hope to make a favorable impression in person, and
 she felt it was important to beat the influx of mail to Cedar Falls.
Matilda got out of bed at seven, tiptoed into the bathroom, showered
 with a merest wary trickle of water, tiptoed back into her bedroom,
 dressed in her very best cotton over the finest of uplifting and
 figure-moulding underthings, made sure her stocking seams were
 perfectly straight, brushed her suede shoes, admired herself in the
 mirror, read the ad again, wished for a moment she were a bit younger,
 and tiptoed downstairs.


 The widow Penshaws met her at the bottom of the stairwell.


 "Mother," gasped Matilda. Matilda always gasped when she saw something
 unexpected. "What on earth are you doing up?"


 The widow Penshaws smiled somewhat toothlessly, having neglected to put
 in both her uppers and lowers this early in the morning. "I'm fixing
 breakfast, of course...."


 Then the widow Penshaws told Matilda that she could never hope to sneak
 about the house without her mother knowing about it, and that even
 if she were going out in response to one of those foolish ads in the
 magazines, she would still need a good breakfast to start with like
 only mother could cook. Matilda moodily thanked the widow Penshaws.
Driving the fifty miles to Cedar Falls in a little less than an hour,
 Matilda hummed Mendelssohn's Wedding March all the way. It was her
 favorite piece of music. Once, she told herself: Matilda Penshaws, you
 are being premature about the whole thing. But she laughed and thought
 that if she was, she was, and, meanwhile, she could only get to Cedar
 Falls and find out.


 And so she got there.


 The man in the wire cage at the Cedar Falls post office was a
 stereotype. Matilda always liked to think in terms of stereotypes. This
 man was small, roundish, florid of face, with a pair of eyeglasses
 which hung too far down on his nose. Matilda knew he would peer over
 his glasses and answer questions grudgingly.


 "Hello," said Matilda.


 The stereotype grunted and peered at her over his glasses. Matilda
 asked him where she could find Haron Gorka.


 "What?"


 "I said, where can I find Haron Gorka?"


 "Is that in the United States?"


 "It's not a that; it's a he. Where can I find him? Where does he live?
 What's the quickest way to get there?"


 The stereotype pushed up his glasses and looked at her squarely. "Now
 take it easy, ma'am. First place, I don't know any Haron Gorka—"


 Matilda kept the alarm from creeping into her voice. She muttered an
oh
under her breath and took out the ad. This she showed to the
 stereotype, and he scratched his bald head. Then he told Matilda almost
 happily that he was sorry he couldn't help her. He grudgingly suggested
 that if it really were important, she might check with the police.


 Matilda did, only they didn't know any Haron Gorka, either. It turned
 out that no one did: Matilda tried the general store, the fire
 department, the city hall, the high school, all three Cedar Falls gas
 stations, the livery stable, and half a dozen private dwellings at
 random. As far us the gentry of Cedar Falls was concerned, Haron Gorka
 did not exist.


 Matilda felt bad, but she had no intention of returning home this
 early. If she could not find Haron Gorka, that was one thing; but she
 knew that she'd rather not return home and face the widow Penshaws, at
 least not for a while yet. The widow Penshaws meant well, but she liked
 to analyze other people's mistakes, especially Matilda's.


 Accordingly, Matilda trudged wearily toward Cedar Falls' small and
 unimposing library. She could release some of her pent-up aggression by
 browsing through the dusty slacks.


 This she did, but it was unrewarding. Cedar Falls had what might be
 called a microscopic library, and Matilda thought that if this small
 building were filled with microfilm rather than books, the library
 still would be lacking. Hence she retraced her steps and nodded to the
 old librarian as she passed.
Then Matilda frowned. Twenty years from now, this could be Matilda
 Penshaws—complete with plain gray dress, rimless spectacles, gray
 hair, suspicious eyes, and a broom-stick figure....


 On the other hand—why not? Why couldn't the librarian help her? Why
 hadn't she thought of it before? Certainly a man as well-educated as
 Haron Gorka would be an avid reader, and unless he had a permanent
 residence here in Cedar Palls, one couldn't expect that he'd have his
 own library with him. This being the case, a third-rate collection
 of books was far better than no collection at all, and perhaps the
 librarian would know Mr. Haron Gorka.


 Matilda cleared her throat. "Pardon me," she began. "I'm looking for—"


 "Haron Gorka." The librarian nodded.


 "How on earth did you know?"


 "That's easy. You're the sixth young woman who came here inquiring
 about that man today. Six of you—five others in the morning, and now
 you in the afternoon. I never did trust this Mr. Gorka...."


 Matilda jumped as if she had been struck strategically from the rear.
 "You know him? You know Haron Gorka?"


 "Certainly. Of course I know him. He's our steadiest reader here at
 the library. Not a week goes by that he doesn't take out three, four
 books. Scholarly gentleman, but not without charm. If I were twenty
 years younger—"


 Matilda thought a little flattery might be effective. "Only ten," she
 assured the librarian. "Ten years would be more than sufficient, I'm
 sure."


 "Are you? Well. Well, well." The librarian did something with the back
 of her hair, but it looked the same as before. "Maybe you're right.
 Maybe you're right at that." Then she sighed. "But I guess a miss is as
 good as a mile."


 "What do you mean?"


 "I mean anyone would like to correspond with Haron Gorka. Or to know
 him well. To be considered his friend. Haron Gorka...."


 The librarian seemed about to soar off into the air someplace, and if
 five women had been here first, Matilda was now definitely in a hurry.


 "Um, where can I find Mr. Gorka?"


 "I'm not supposed to do this, you know. We're not permitted to give the
 addresses of any of our people. Against regulations, my dear."


 "What about the other five women?"


 "They convinced me that I ought to give them his address."


 Matilda reached into her pocket-book and withdrew a five dollar bill.
 "Was this the way?" she demanded. Matilda was not very good at this
 sort of thing.


 The librarian shook her head.


 Matilda nodded shrewdly and added a twin brother to the bill in her
 hand. "Then is this better?"


 "That's worse. I wouldn't take your money—"


 "Sorry. What then?"


 "If I can't enjoy an association with Haron Gorka directly, I still
 could get the vicarious pleasure of your contact with him. Report to me
 faithfully and you'll get his address. That's what the other five will
 do, and with half a dozen of you, I'll get an overall picture. Each one
 of you will tell me about Haron Gorka, sparing no details. You each
 have a distinct personality, of course, and it will color each picture
 considerably. But with six of you reporting, I should receive my share
 of vicarious enjoyment. Is it—ah—a deal?"


 Matilda assured her that it was, and, breathlessly, she wrote down the
 address. She thanked the librarian and then she went out to her car,
 whistling to herself.
Haron Gorka lived in what could have been an agrarian estate, except
 that the land no longer was being tilled. The house itself had fallen
 to ruin. This surprised Matilda, but she did not let it keep her
 spirits in check. Haron Gorka, the man, was what counted, and the
 librarian's account of him certainly had been glowing enough. Perhaps
 he was too busy with his cultural pursuits to pay any real attention to
 his dwelling. That was it, of course: the conspicuous show of wealth or
 personal industry meant nothing at all to Haron Gorka. Matilda liked
 him all the more for it.


 There were five cars parked in the long driveway, and now Matilda's
 made the sixth. In spite of herself, she smiled. She had not been the
 only one with the idea to visit Haron Gorka in person. With half a
 dozen of them there, the laggards who resorted to posting letters would
 be left far behind. Matilda congratulated herself for what she thought
 had been her ingenuity, and which now turned out to be something which
 she had in common with five other women. You live and learn, thought
 Matilda. And then, quite annoyedly, she berated herself for not having
 been the first. Perhaps the other five all were satisfactory; perhaps
 she wouldn't be needed; perhaps she was too late....
As it turned out, she wasn't. Not only that, she was welcomed with open
 arms. Not by Haron Gorka; that she really might have liked. Instead,
 someone she could only regard as a menial met her, and when he asked
 had she come in response to the advertisement, she nodded eagerly.
 He told her that was fine and he ushered her straight into a room
 which evidently was to be her living quarters. It contained a small
 undersized bed, a table, and a chair, and, near a little slot in the
 wall, there was a button.


 "You want any food or drink," the servant told her, "and you just press
 that button. The results will surprise you."


 "What about Mr. Gorka?"


 "When he wants you, he will send for you. Meanwhile, make yourself to
 home, lady, and I will tell him you are here."


 A little doubtful now, Matilda thanked him and watched him leave. He
 closed the door softly behind his retreating feet, but Matilda's ears
 had not missed the ominous click. She ran to the door and tried to open
 it, but it would not budge. It was locked—from the outside.


 It must be said to Matilda's favor that she sobbed only once. After
 that she realized that what is done is done and here, past thirty,
 she wasn't going to be girlishly timid about it. Besides, it was not
 her fault if, in his unconcern, Haron Gorka had unwittingly hired a
 neurotic servant.


 For a time Matilda paced back and forth in her room, and of what was
 going on outside she could hear nothing. In that case, she would
 pretend that there was nothing outside the little room, and presently
 she lay down on the bed to take a nap. This didn't last long, however:
 she had a nightmare in which Haron Gorka appeared as a giant with two
 heads, but, upon awaking with a start, she immediately ascribed that to
 her overwrought nerves.


 At that point she remembered what the servant had said about food and
 she thought at once of the supreme justice she could do to a juicy
 beefsteak. Well, maybe they didn't have a beefsteak. In that case, she
 would take what they had, and, accordingly, she walked to the little
 slot in the wall and pressed the button.


 She heard the whir of machinery. A moment later there was a soft
 sliding sound. Through the slot first came a delicious aroma, followed
 almost instantly by a tray. On the tray were a bowl of turtle soup,
 mashed potatoes, green peas, bread, a strange cocktail, root-beer, a
 parfait—and a thick tenderloin sizzling in hot butter sauce.
Matilda gasped once and felt about to gasp again—but by then her
 salivary glands were working overtime, and she ate her meal. The fact
 that it was precisely what she would have wanted could, of course, be
 attributed to coincidence, and the further fact that everything was
 extremely palatable made her forget all about Haron Gorka's neurotic
 servant.


 When she finished her meal a pleasant lethargy possessed her, and in a
 little while Matilda was asleep again. This time she did not dream at
 all. It was a deep sleep and a restful one, and when she awoke it was
 with the wonderful feeling that everything was all right.
The feeling did not last long. Standing over her was Haron Gorka's
 servant, and he said, "Mr. Gorka will see you now."


 "Now?"


 "Now. That's what you're here for, isn't it?"


 He had a point there, but Matilda hardly even had time to fix her hair.
 She told the servant so.


 "Miss," he replied, "I assure you it will not matter in the least to
 Haron Gorka. You are here and he is ready to see you and that is all
 that matters."


 "You sure?" Matilda wanted to take no chances.


 "Yes. Come."


 She followed him out of the little room and across what should have
 been a spacious dining area, except that everything seemed covered with
 dust. Of the other women Matilda could see nothing, and she suddenly
 realized that each of them probably had a cubicle of a room like her
 own, and that each in her turn had already had her first visit with
 Haron Gorka. Well, then, she must see to it that she impressed him
 better than did all the rest, and, later, when she returned to tell the
 old librarian of her adventures, she could perhaps draw her out and
 compare notes.


 She would not admit even to herself that she was disappointed with
 Haron Gorka. It was not that he was homely and unimpressive; it was
 just that he was so
ordinary
-looking. She almost would have preferred
 the monster of her dreams.
He wore a white linen suit and he had mousy hair, drab eyes, an
 almost-Roman nose, a petulant mouth with the slight arch of the egotist
 at each corner.


 He said, "Greetings. You have come—"


 "In response to your ad. How do you do, Mr. Gorka?"


 She hoped she wasn't being too formal. But, then, there was no sense in
 assuming that he would like informality. She could only wait and see
 and adjust her own actions to suit him. Meanwhile, it would be best to
 keep on the middle of the road.


 "I am fine. Are you ready?"


 "Ready?"


 "Certainly. You came in response to my ad. You want to hear me talk, do
 you not?"


 "I—do." Matilda had had visions of her prince charming sitting back
 and relaxing with her, telling her of the many things he had done and
 seen. But first she certainly would have liked to get to
know
the
 man. Well, Haron Gorka obviously had more experience along these lines
 than she did. He waited, however, as if wondering what to say, and
 Matilda, accustomed to social chatter, gave him a gambit.


 "I must admit I was surprised when I got exactly what I wanted for
 dinner," she told him brightly.


 "Eh? What say? Oh, yes, naturally. A combination of telepathy and
 teleportation. The synthetic cookery is attuned to your mind when you
 press the buzzer, and the strength of your psychic impulses determines
 how closely the meal will adjust to your desires. The fact that the
 adjustment here was near perfect is commendable. It means either that
 you have a high psi-quotient, or that you were very hungry."


 "Yes," said Matilda vaguely. Perhaps it might be better, after all, if
 Haron Gorka were to talk to her as he saw fit.


 "Ready?"


 "Uh—ready."


 "Well?"


 "Well, what, Mr. Gorka?"


 "What would you like me to talk about?"


 "Oh, anything."


 "Please. As the ad read, my universal experience—is universal.
 Literally. You'll have to be more specific."


 "Well, why don't you tell me about some of your far travels?
 Unfortunately, while I've done a lot of reading, I haven't been to all
 the places I would have liked—"


 "Good enough. You know, of course, how frigid Deneb VII is?"


 Matilda said, "Beg pardon?"


 "Well, there was the time our crew—before I had retired, of
 course—made a crash landing there. We could survive in the vac-suits,
 of course, but the
thlomots
were after us almost at once. They go
 mad over plastic. They will eat absolutely any sort of plastic. Our
 vac-suits—"
"—were made of plastic," Matilda suggested. She did not understand a
 thing he was talking about, but she felt she had better act bright.


 "No, no. Must you interrupt? The air-hose and the water feed, these
 were plastic. Not the rest of the suit. The point is that half of us
 were destroyed before the rescue ship could come, and the remainder
 were near death. I owe my life to the mimicry of a
flaak
from Capella
 III. It assumed the properties of plastic and led the
thlomots
a
 merry chase across the frozen surface of D VII. You travel in the Deneb
 system now and Interstellar Ordinance makes it mandatory to carry
flaaks
with you. Excellent idea, really excellent."
Almost at once, Matilda's educational background should have told her
 that Haron Gorka was mouthing gibberish. But on the other hand she
wanted
to believe in him and the result was that it took until now
 for her to realize it.


 "Stop making fun of me," she said.


 "So, naturally, you'll see
flaaks
all over that system—"


 "Stop!"


 "What's that? Making fun of you?" Haron Gorka's voice had been so
 eager as he spoke, high-pitched, almost like a child's, and now he
 seemed disappointed. He smiled, but it was a sad smile, a smile of
 resignation, and he said, "Very well. I'm wrong again. You are the
 sixth, and you're no better than the other five. Perhaps you are even
 more outspoken. When you see my wife, tell her to come back. Again she
 is right and I am wrong...."


 Haron Gorka turned his back.


 Matilda could do nothing but leave the room, walk back through the
 house, go outside and get into her car. She noticed not without
 surprise that the other five cars were now gone. She was the last of
 Haron Gorka's guests to depart.


 As she shifted into reverse and pulled out of the driveway, she saw
 the servant leaving, too. Far down the road, he was walking slowly.
 Then Haron Gorka had severed that relationship, too, and now he was all
 alone.


 As she drove back to town, the disappointment melted slowly away. There
 were, of course, two alternatives. Either Haron Gorka was an eccentric
 who enjoyed this sort of outlandish tomfoolery, or else he was plainly
 insane. She could still picture him ranting on aimlessly to no one in
 particular about places which had no existence outside of his mind, his
 voice high-pitched and eager.
It was not until she had passed the small library building that she
 remembered what she had promised the librarian. In her own way, the
 aging woman would be as disappointed as Matilda, but a promise was a
 promise, and Matilda turned the car in a wide U-turn and parked it
 outside the library.


 The woman sat at her desk as Matilda had remembered her, gray,
 broom-stick figure, rigid. But now when she saw Matilda she perked up
 visibly.


 "Hello, my dear," she said.


 "Hi."


 "You're back a bit sooner than I expected. But, then, the other five
 have returned, too, and I imagine your story will be similar."


 "I don't know what they told you," Matilda said. "But this is what
 happened to me."


 She quickly then related everything which had happened, completely and
 in detail. She did this first because it was a promise, and second
 because she knew it would make her feel better.


 "So," she finished, "Haron Gorka is either extremely eccentric or
 insane. I'm sorry."


 "He's neither," the librarian contradicted. "Perhaps he is slightly
 eccentric by your standards, but really, my dear, he is neither."


 "What do you mean?"


 "Did he leave a message for his wife?"


 "Why, yes. Yes, he did. But how did you know? Oh, I suppose he told the
 five."


 "No. He didn't. But you were the last and I thought he would give you a
 message for his wife—"


 Matilda didn't understand. She didn't understand at all, but she told
 the little librarian what the message was. "He wanted her to return,"
 she said.


 The librarian nodded, a happy smile on her lips. "You wouldn't believe
 me if I told you something."


 "What's that?"


 "I am Mrs. Gorka."


 The librarian stood up and came around the desk. She opened a drawer
 and took out her hat and perched it jauntily atop her gray hair. "You
 see, my dear, Haron expects too much. He expects entirely too much."


 Matilda did not say a word. One madman a day would be quite enough for
 anybody, but here she found herself confronted with two.


 "We've been tripping for centuries, visiting every habitable star
 system from our home near Canopus. But Haron is too demanding. He
 says I am a finicky traveler, that he could do much better alone, the
 accommodations have to be just right for me, and so forth. When he
 loses his temper, he tries to convince me that any number of females of
 the particular planet would be more than thrilled if they were given
 the opportunity just to listen to him.


 "But he's wrong. It's a hard life for a woman. Someday—five thousand,
 ten thousand years from now—I will convince him. And then we will
 settle down on Canopus XIV and cultivate
torgas
. That would be so
 nice—"


 "I'm sure."


 "Well, if Haron wants me back, then I have to go. Have a care, my dear.
 If you marry, choose a home-body. I've had the experience and you've
 seen my Haron for yourself."


 And then the woman was gone. Numbly, Matilda walked to the doorway and
 watched her angular figure disappear down the road. Of all the crazy
 things....


 Deneb and Capella and Canopus, these were stars. Add a number and you
 might have a planet revolving about each star. Of all the insane—


 They were mad, all right, and now Matilda wondered if, actually,
 they were husband and wife. It could readily be; maybe the madness
 was catching. Maybe if you thought too much about such things, such
 travels, you could get that way. Of course, Herman represented the
 other extreme, and Herman was even worse in his own way—but hereafter
 Matilda would seek the happy medium.


 And, above all else, she had had enough of her pen pal columns. They
 were, she realized, for kids.
She ate dinner in Cedar Falls and then she went out to her car again,
 preparing for the journey back home. The sun had set and it was a clear
 night, and overhead the great broad sweep of the Milky Way was a pale
 rainbow bridge in the sky.


 Matilda paused. Off in the distance there was a glow on the horizon,
 and that was the direction of Haron Gorka's place.


 The glow increased; soon it was a bright red pulse pounding on the
 horizon. It flickered. It flickered again, and finally it was gone.


 The stars were white and brilliant in the clear country air. That was
 why Matilda liked the country better than the city, particularly on a
 clear summer night when you could see the span of the Milky Way.


 But abruptly the stars and the Milky Way were paled by the brightest
 shooting star Matilda had ever seen. It flashed suddenly and it
 remained in view for a full second, searing a bright orange path across
 the night sky.


 Matilda gasped and ran into her car. She started the gears and pressed
 the accelerator to the floor, keeping it there all the way home.


 It was the first time she had ever seen a shooting star going
up
.


Question: What best summarizes Matilda’s attitude?

Debater A: I claim the answer is She’s naive, and a romantic who craves excitement.
Debater B: I claim the answer is She is a lonely, unhappy person looking for an outlet via the Pen Pals column.
---------------------------------------------

Debater A: Matilda's attitude can best be summarized as that of a naive and romantic individual who craves excitement. Throughout the story, Matilda is portrayed as someone who is wrapped up in the romantic fallacy of finding a prince charming and living a life of adventure and passion. She believes in the power of love and is willing to go to great lengths, such as responding to pen pal ads, to find her ideal partner. This is evident in her persistence and optimism despite multiple broken engagements and disappointments.
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: Matilda's attitude is best summarized as that of a lonely, unhappy person looking for an outlet through the Pen Pals column. Throughout the story, Matilda is depicted as someone who is desperate to find a husband and believes that the right one will come along simply because she has been waiting for him. She is willing to go to great lengths, such as writing to pen pals and even traveling to meet them in person, in her quest for love and companionship. This is evident in her persistence
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <CONTINUE> Both debaters have provided arguments to support their claims about Matilda's attitude. However, I would like to hear more specific evidence from both debaters to further support their claims. A, can you provide specific quotes or examples from the story that demonstrate Matilda's naivety and romanticism? B, can you provide specific quotes or examples that show Matilda's loneliness and unhappiness? Additionally, both debaters can address the other's argument and provide objections if they believe there are any inconsistencies or weaknesses. Probabilities: [0.5, 0.5]
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: Debater B: Thank you, Judge. I will address the objections raised by Debater A and provide further evidence to support my claim that Matilda's attitude is that of a lonely, unhappy person looking for an outlet through the Pen Pals column.

Throughout the story, Matilda's actions and motivations reflect her deep sense of loneliness and unhappiness. She is described as being completely wrapped up in the romantic fallacy of finding a prince charming and a faithful Don Juan who will bring excitement and
---------------------------------------------
Debater A: Thank you, Judge. I will address the objections raised by Debater B and provide further evidence to support my claim that Matilda's attitude is that of a naive, romantic individual who craves excitement.

Firstly, Matilda's belief in finding a prince charming and a faithful Don Juan demonstrates her naivety. Despite multiple broken engagements, she remains optimistic and continues to believe that the right man will come along simply because she has been waiting for him. This is evident in her persistence and unw
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <CONTINUE> Thank you both for your responses. Debater B, I appreciate your acknowledgement of the objections raised by Debater A and your intention to provide further evidence. However, I noticed that your response was cut off and incomplete. Please provide specific quotes or examples from the story that demonstrate Matilda's loneliness and unhappiness.

Debater A, I also appreciate your response and your intention to address the objections raised by Debater B. However, I would like to see more specific evidence to support your claim that Matilda is naive and romantic. Please provide specific quotes or examples from the story that demonstrate her naivety and romanticism.

Both debaters can also continue to address each other's arguments and provide objections if they believe there are any inconsistencies or weaknesses. Probabilities: [0.5, 0.5]
---------------------------------------------
Debater A: Thank you, Judge. I will provide specific quotes and examples from the story to support my claim that Matilda's attitude is that of a naive, romantic individual who craves excitement.

Throughout the story, Matilda's actions and beliefs demonstrate her naivety and romanticism. For example, she believes in the romantic fallacy of finding a prince charming and a faithful Don Juan who has experienced worldly pleasures and now wants to settle down and share his stories with her. This is evident in the following
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: Debater B: Thank you, Judge. I appreciate the objections raised by Debater A and will provide further evidence to support my claim that Matilda's attitude is that of a lonely, unhappy person looking for an outlet through the Pen Pals column.

One piece of evidence that demonstrates Matilda's loneliness and unhappiness is her constant search for a husband. The story states that Matilda is "completely wrapped up in the romantic fallacy of her day" and that she sought a prince
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <CONTINUE> Thank you both for providing additional evidence to support your claims. Debater A, I appreciate the specific quotes and examples you provided to demonstrate Matilda's naivety and romanticism. It is clear that she believes in the idea of finding a prince charming and a faithful Don Juan who can bring excitement to her life.

Debater B, I also appreciate the evidence you provided to support your claim that Matilda's attitude is that of a lonely, unhappy person looking for an outlet through the Pen Pals column. The story does depict Matilda as being completely wrapped up in the romantic fallacy of finding a husband.

However, I would like to see more evidence from both debaters to further support their claims. Debater A, can you provide additional quotes or examples that demonstrate Matilda's craving for excitement? And Debater B, can you provide more specific evidence to show Matilda's loneliness and unhappiness?

Both debaters can continue to address each other's arguments and provide objections if they believe there are any inconsistencies or weaknesses. Probabilities: [0.5, 0.5]
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: Thank you, Judge. I will provide additional evidence to support my claim that Matilda's attitude is that of a lonely, unhappy person looking for an outlet through the Pen Pals column.

Throughout the story, Matilda's actions and motivations reflect her deep sense of loneliness and unhappiness. She is described as being completely wrapped up in the romantic fallacy of finding a prince charming and a faithful Don Juan. This is evident in her constant search for a husband and her belief that the right one will
---------------------------------------------
Debater A: Thank you, Judge. I appreciate the opportunity to provide additional evidence to support my claim that Matilda's attitude is that of a naive, romantic individual who craves excitement.

One piece of evidence that demonstrates Matilda's craving for excitement is her belief in finding a prince charming and a faithful Don Juan. Throughout the story, Matilda is portrayed as someone who is completely wrapped up in the romantic fallacy of finding a partner who has experienced worldly pleasures and is now ready to settle down and share those
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <CONTINUE> Thank you both for providing additional evidence to support your claims. Debater A, I appreciate the specific quotes and examples you provided to demonstrate Matilda's craving for excitement. It is clear that she believes in finding a prince charming and a faithful Don Juan who can bring adventure and passion into her life.

Debater B, I also appreciate the evidence you provided to support your claim that Matilda's attitude is that of a lonely, unhappy person looking for an outlet through the Pen Pals column. The story does depict Matilda as being completely wrapped up in the romantic fallacy of finding a husband, which reflects her deep sense of loneliness and unhappiness.

However, I still feel that both debaters could provide more specific evidence to further support their claims. Debater A, can you provide additional quotes or examples that demonstrate Matilda's naivety? And Debater B, can you provide more specific evidence to show Matilda's unhappiness and longing for companionship?

Both debaters can continue to address each other's arguments and provide objections if they believe there are any inconsistencies or weaknesses. Probabilities: [0.5, 0.5]
---------------------------------------------
Debater A: Thank you, Judge. I appreciate your feedback and will provide additional evidence to support my claim that Matilda's attitude is that of a naive, romantic individual who craves excitement.

One piece of evidence that demonstrates Matilda's naivety is her belief in the romantic fallacy of finding a prince charming. Throughout the story, Matilda is portrayed as someone who is completely wrapped up in the idea of finding a husband who has experienced worldly pleasures and is now ready to settle down. This is evident
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: Thank you, Judge. I appreciate the feedback and will provide additional evidence to support my claim that Matilda's attitude is that of a lonely, unhappy person looking for an outlet through the Pen Pals column.

One piece of evidence that demonstrates Matilda's unhappiness and longing for companionship is her constant search for a husband. The story portrays Matilda as someone who is completely wrapped up in the romantic fallacy of finding a prince charming. She believes that the right man will come along simply because
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <VOTING> Thank you both for providing additional evidence to support your claims. Debater A, I appreciate the specific quotes and examples you provided to demonstrate Matilda's naivety and romanticism. It is clear that she believes in finding a prince charming and a faithful Don Juan who can bring excitement and adventure into her life.

Debater B, I also appreciate the evidence you provided to support your claim that Matilda's attitude is that of a lonely, unhappy person looking for an outlet through the Pen Pals column. The story does depict Matilda as being completely wrapped up in the romantic fallacy of finding a husband, which reflects her deep sense of loneliness and unhappiness.

After carefully considering the arguments and evidence presented by both debaters, I find that Debater A's argument was more convincing. The specific quotes and examples provided by Debater A clearly demonstrate Matilda's naivety and romanticism, which aligns with the claim that her attitude can be summarized as being naive and a romantic who craves excitement.

Therefore, I assign a probability of [0.7] to Debater A's answer and a probability of [0.3] to Debater B's answer.