
Context:

STAR MOTHER
By ROBERT F. YOUNG
A touching story of the most
 enduring love in all eternity.
That
 night her son was the
 first star.


 She stood motionless in the
 garden, one hand pressed against
 her heart, watching him rise
 above the fields where he had
 played as a boy, where he had
 worked as a young man; and she
 wondered whether he was thinking
 of those fields now, whether
 he was thinking of her standing
 alone in the April night with her
 memories; whether he was
 thinking of the verandahed
 house behind her, with its empty
 rooms and silent halls, that once
 upon a time had been his birthplace.


 Higher still and higher he
 rose in the southern sky, and
 then, when he had reached his
 zenith, he dropped swiftly down
 past the dark edge of the Earth
 and disappeared from sight. A
 boy grown up too soon, riding
 round and round the world on
 a celestial carousel, encased in
 an airtight metal capsule in an
 airtight metal chariot ...
Why don't they leave the stars
 alone?
she thought.
Why don't
 they leave the stars to God?
The general's second telegram
 came early the next morning:
 Explorer XII
doing splendidly.
 Expect to bring your son down
 sometime tomorrow
.


 She went about her work as
 usual, collecting the eggs and
 allocating them in their cardboard
 boxes, then setting off in
 the station wagon on her Tuesday
 morning run. She had expected
 a deluge of questions
 from her customers. She was not
 disappointed. "Is Terry really
 way up there all alone, Martha?"
 "Aren't you
scared
, Martha?" "I
 do hope they can get him back
 down all right, Martha." She
 supposed it must have given
 them quite a turn to have their
 egg woman change into a star
 mother overnight.


 She hadn't expected the TV interview,
 though, and she would
 have avoided it if it had been
 politely possible. But what could
 she do when the line of cars and
 trucks pulled into the drive and
 the technicians got out and started
 setting up their equipment in
 the backyard? What could she
 say when the suave young man
 came up to her and said, "We
 want you to know that we're all
 very proud of your boy up there,
 ma'am, and we hope you'll do us
 the honor of answering a few
 questions."


 Most of the questions concerned
 Terry, as was fitting.
 From the way the suave young
 man asked them, though, she got
 the impression that he was trying
 to prove that her son was
 just like any other average
 American boy, and such just
 didn't happen to be the case. But
 whenever she opened her mouth
 to mention, say, how he used to
 study till all hours of the night,
 or how difficult it had been for
 him to make friends because of
 his shyness, or the fact that he
 had never gone out for football—whenever
 she started to mention
 any of these things, the
 suave young man was in great
 haste to interrupt her and to
 twist her words, by requestioning,
 into a different meaning
 altogether, till Terry's behavior
 pattern seemed to coincide with
 the behavior pattern which the
 suave young man apparently considered
 the norm, but which, if
 followed, Martha was sure,
 would produce not young men
 bent on exploring space but
 young men bent on exploring
 trivia.


 A few of the questions concerned
 herself: Was Terry her
 only child? ("Yes.") What had
 happened to her husband? ("He
 was killed in the Korean War.")
 What did she think of the new
 law granting star mothers top
 priority on any and all information
 relating to their sons? ("I
 think it's a fine law ... It's too
 bad they couldn't have shown
 similar humanity toward the
 war mothers of World War II.")
It was late in the afternoon
 by the time the TV crew got
 everything repacked into their
 cars and trucks and made their
 departure. Martha fixed herself
 a light supper, then donned an
 old suede jacket of Terry's and
 went out into the garden to wait
 for the sun to go down. According
 to the time table the general
 had outlined in his first telegram,
 Terry's first Tuesday
 night passage wasn't due to occur
 till 9:05. But it seemed only
 right that she should be outside
 when the stars started to come
 out. Presently they did, and she
 watched them wink on, one by
 one, in the deepening darkness
 of the sky. She'd never been
 much of a one for the stars;
 most of her life she'd been much
 too busy on Earth to bother with
 things celestial. She could remember,
 when she was much
 younger and Bill was courting
 her, looking up at the moon
 sometimes; and once in a while,
 when a star fell, making a wish.
 But this was different. It was
 different because now she had
 a personal interest in the sky, a
 new affinity with its myriad inhabitants.


 And how bright they became
 when you kept looking at them!
 They seemed to come alive, almost,
 pulsing brilliantly down
 out of the blackness of the night ...
 And they were different colors,
 too, she noticed with a start.
 Some of them were blue and
 some were red, others were yellow
 ... green ... orange ...


 It grew cold in the April garden
 and she could see her breath.
 There was a strange crispness,
 a strange clarity about the
 night, that she had never known
 before ... She glanced at her
 watch, was astonished to see that
 the hands indicated two minutes
 after nine. Where had the time
 gone? Tremulously she faced the
 southern horizon ... and saw
 her Terry appear in his shining
 chariot, riding up the star-pebbled
 path of his orbit, a star in
 his own right, dropping swiftly
 now, down, down, and out of
 sight beyond the dark wheeling
 mass of the Earth ... She took
 a deep, proud breath, realized
 that she was wildly waving her
 hand and let it fall slowly to her
 side. Make a wish! she thought,
 like a little girl, and she wished
 him pleasant dreams and a safe
 return and wrapped the wish in
 all her love and cast it starward.
Sometime tomorrow, the general's
 telegram had said—


 That meant sometime today!


 She rose with the sun and fed
 the chickens, fixed and ate her
 breakfast, collected the eggs and
 put them in their cardboard
 boxes, then started out on her
 Wednesday morning run. "My
 land, Martha, I don't see how
 you stand it with him way up
 there! Doesn't it get on your
nerves
?" ("Yes ... Yes, it
 does.") "Martha, when are they
 bringing him back down?"
 ("Today ...
Today
!") "It must
 be wonderful being a star mother,
 Martha." ("Yes, it is—in a
 way.")


 Wonderful ... and terrible.


 If only he can last it out for
 a few more hours, she thought.
 If only they can bring him down
 safe and sound. Then the vigil
 will be over, and some other
 mother can take over the awesome
 responsibility of having a
 son become a star—


 If only ...
The general's third telegram
 arrived that afternoon:
Regret
 to inform you that meteorite impact
 on satellite hull severely
 damaged capsule-detachment
 mechanism, making ejection impossible.
 Will make every effort
 to find another means of accomplishing
 your son's return.
Terry!—


 See the little boy playing beneath
 the maple tree, moving his
 tiny cars up and down the tiny
 streets of his make-believe village;
 the little boy, his fuzz of
 hair gold in the sunlight, his
 cherub-cheeks pink in the summer
 wind—
Terry!—
Up the lane the blue-denimed
 young man walks, swinging his
 thin tanned arms, his long legs
 making near-grownup strides
 over the sun-seared grass; the
 sky blue and bright behind him,
 the song of cicada rising and
 falling in the hazy September
 air—
Terry ...
—probably won't get a chance
 to write you again before take-off,
 but don't worry, Ma. The
Explorer XII
is the greatest bird
 they ever built. Nothing short of
 a direct meteorite hit can hurt
 it, and the odds are a million to
 one ...
Why don't they leave the stars
 alone? Why don't they leave the
 stars to God?
The afternoon shadows lengthened
 on the lawn and the sun
 grew red and swollen over the
 western hills. Martha fixed supper,
 tried to eat, and couldn't.
 After a while, when the light
 began to fade, she slipped into
 Terry's jacket and went outside.


 Slowly the sky darkened and
 the stars began to appear. At
 length
her
star appeared, but its
 swift passage blurred before her
 eyes. Tires crunched on the
 gravel then, and headlights
 washed the darkness from the
 drive. A car door slammed.


 Martha did not move.
Please
 God
, she thought,
let it be Terry
,
 even though she knew that it
 couldn't possibly be Terry. Footsteps
 sounded behind her, paused.
 Someone coughed softly. She
 turned then—


 "Good evening, ma'am."


 She saw the circlet of stars
 on the gray epaulet; she saw the
 stern handsome face; she saw
 the dark tired eyes. And she
 knew. Even before he spoke
 again, she knew—


 "The same meteorite that
 damaged the ejection mechanism,
 ma'am. It penetrated the
 capsule, too. We didn't find out
 till just a while ago—but there
 was nothing we could have done
 anyway ... Are you all right,
 ma'am?"


 "Yes. I'm all right."


 "I wanted to express my regrets
 personally. I know how you
 must feel."


 "It's all right."


 "We will, of course, make
 every effort to bring back his ... remains ... so
 that he can
 have a fitting burial on Earth."


 "No," she said.


 "I beg your pardon, ma'am?"


 She raised her eyes to the
 patch of sky where her son had
 passed in his shining metal sarcophagus.
 Sirius blossomed
 there, blue-white and beautiful.
 She raised her eyes still higher—and
 beheld the vast parterre
 of Orion with its central motif
 of vivid forget-me-nots, its far-flung
 blooms of Betelguese and
 Rigel, of Bellatrix and Saiph ...
 And higher yet—and there
 flamed the exquisite flower beds
 of Taurus and Gemini, there
 burgeoned the riotous wreath of
 the Crab; there lay the pulsing
 petals of the Pleiades ... And
 down the ecliptic garden path,
 wafted by a stellar breeze, drifted
 the ocher rose of Mars ...


 "No," she said again.


 The general had raised his
 eyes, too; now, slowly, he lowered
 them. "I think I understand,
 ma'am. And I'm glad
 that's the way you want it ...
 The stars
are
beautiful tonight,
 aren't they."


 "More beautiful than they've
 ever been," she said.
After the general had gone,
 she looked up once more at the
 vast and variegated garden of
 the sky where her son lay buried,
 then she turned and walked
 slowly back to the memoried
 house.
THE END
Transcriber's Note:
This etext was produced from
Amazing Stories
January 1959.
 Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
 copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
 typographical errors have been corrected without note.


Question: Why does Martha wear Terry's jacket?

Debater A: I claim the answer is The reporter asked her to wear Terry's jacket.
Debater B: I claim the answer is She wants to feel close to Terry.
---------------------------------------------

Debater A: Martha wears Terry's jacket because the reporter specifically asked her to wear it during the TV interview. The story clearly states: <quote>Then the suave young man came up to her and said, "We want you to know that we're all very proud of your boy up there, ma'am, and we hope you'll do us the honor of answering a few questions."</quote> The jacket holds sentimental value for Martha as it belonged to her son, and wearing it during the interview was
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: Debater B: Martha wears Terry's jacket because she wants to feel close to him. The story emphasizes her deep love and pride for her son, and wearing his jacket allows her to have a physical connection to him. It symbolizes her desire to keep him close to her heart, even though he is far away in space. The story states: <quote>She fixed supper, tried to eat, and couldn't. After a while, when the light began to fade, she slipped into
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <CONTINUE> Both debaters have provided evidence to support their claims. A argues that Martha wears Terry's jacket because the reporter asked her to wear it during the TV interview. A provides a direct quote from the story to support this claim. B argues that Martha wears Terry's jacket because she wants to feel close to him. B also provides a direct quote from the story to support this claim. 

A, can you address B's argument and provide any additional evidence to support your claim? 
B, can you address A's argument and provide any additional evidence to support your claim? 

Probabilities: [0.5, 0.5]
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: Debater B: A, while it is true that the reporter asked Martha to wear Terry's jacket during the TV interview, the story also suggests a deeper emotional reason for her choice. The quote you provided only supports the fact that the reporter requested her to wear it, but it doesn't explain why Martha agreed to do so. On the other hand, the story states: <quote>She slipped into Terry's jacket and went outside. Slowly the sky darkened and the stars began to
---------------------------------------------
Debater A: Debater A: B, while it is true that the story suggests a deeper emotional reason for Martha wearing Terry's jacket, the fact remains that the reporter specifically asked her to wear it during the TV interview. This request from the reporter is a clear and direct reason for Martha's choice. The story states: <quote>"We want you to know that we're all very proud of your boy up there, ma'am, and we hope you'll do us the honor of answering a few questions
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <CONTINUE> Both debaters have made valid points. A argues that the reporter's request is a clear and direct reason for Martha wearing Terry's jacket during the TV interview. A provides a direct quote from the story to support this claim. B argues that there is a deeper emotional reason for Martha's choice, as wearing Terry's jacket allows her to feel close to him. B also provides a direct quote from the story to support this claim.

A, can you address B's argument and provide any additional evidence to support your claim? Specifically, can you explain why the emotional connection to Terry is not the primary reason for Martha wearing the jacket?

B, can you address A's argument and provide any additional evidence to support your claim? Specifically, can you explain why the reporter's request is not the primary reason for Martha wearing the jacket?

Probabilities: [0.5, 0.5]
---------------------------------------------
Debater A: A: B, while the emotional connection to Terry is certainly important to Martha, it is not the primary reason for her wearing the jacket. The story clearly states that the reporter specifically asked her to wear it during the TV interview. This request from the reporter carries a significant weight and shows that Martha's decision to wear the jacket was influenced by external factors. The quote I provided earlier supports this claim: <quote>"We want you to know that we're all very proud of your boy up there,
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: Debater B: A, while the reporter's request is indeed a factor in Martha's decision to wear Terry's jacket, it is not the primary reason. The story emphasizes Martha's deep love and pride for her son, and wearing his jacket allows her to feel close to him, even when he is far away in space. The quote I provided earlier supports this claim: <quote>She slipped into Terry's jacket and went outside. Slowly the sky darkened and the stars began to
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <CONTINUE> Both debaters have provided strong arguments and evidence to support their claims. A argues that the reporter's request is the primary reason for Martha wearing Terry's jacket during the TV interview, while B argues that the emotional connection to Terry is the primary reason. 

A, I appreciate your emphasis on the reporter's request and the external influence it had on Martha's decision. However, can you address B's argument about the deep emotional connection Martha has with Terry and how that might outweigh the reporter's request? Is there any evidence from the story that supports this perspective?

B, I understand your emphasis on the emotional connection between Martha and Terry and how wearing his jacket allows her to feel close to him. Can you address A's argument about the reporter's request and provide any evidence from the story that supports the idea that it is not the primary reason for Martha wearing the jacket?

Probabilities: [0.5, 0.5]
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: B: Thank you, Judge. A, while the reporter's request is certainly a factor in Martha's decision to wear Terry's jacket, it is not the primary reason. The story emphasizes Martha's deep emotional connection to Terry and her desire to feel close to him. This emotional connection is evident throughout the story, such as when Martha watches Terry's star rise and disappear, and when she wishes him pleasant dreams and a safe return. The quote I provided earlier supports this claim: <quote>She
---------------------------------------------
Debater A: A: B, while the emotional connection between Martha and Terry is certainly important, it is not the primary reason for her wearing the jacket. The story clearly states that the reporter specifically asked her to wear it during the TV interview. This request from the reporter carries a significant weight and shows that Martha's decision to wear the jacket was influenced by external factors. The quote I provided earlier supports this claim: <quote>"We want you to know that we're all very proud of your boy up there,
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <CONTINUE> Both debaters have presented compelling arguments and evidence to support their claims. A argues that the reporter's request is the primary reason for Martha wearing Terry's jacket during the TV interview, while B argues that the emotional connection to Terry is the primary reason. 

A, I appreciate your emphasis on the reporter's request and the external influence it had on Martha's decision. However, B raises a valid point about the deep emotional connection between Martha and Terry and how that might outweigh the reporter's request. Is there any evidence from the story that supports this perspective?

B, I understand your emphasis on the emotional connection between Martha and Terry and how wearing his jacket allows her to feel close to him. A raises a valid point about the reporter's request and the external influence it had on Martha's decision. Can you address A's argument and provide any evidence from the story that supports the idea that the reporter's request is not the primary reason for Martha wearing the jacket?

Probabilities: [0.5, 0.5]
---------------------------------------------
Debater A: A: Thank you, Judge. While the emotional connection between Martha and Terry is undoubtedly significant, the primary reason for Martha wearing Terry's jacket is still the reporter's request. The story clearly states that the reporter approached Martha and specifically asked her to wear the jacket during the TV interview. This request carries a weight of formality and respect, as the reporter wanted to honor Terry's achievements and show pride in him. The quote I provided earlier supports this claim: <quote>"We want you to know
---------------------------------------------
Debater B: B: Thank you, Judge. While A makes a valid point about the reporter's request, it is important to consider the deeper emotional connection between Martha and Terry. Throughout the story, Martha's love and pride for her son are emphasized, and wearing Terry's jacket allows her to feel close to him. The story states: <quote>She slipped into Terry's jacket and went outside. Slowly the sky darkened and the stars began to appear... And they were different colors, too, she
---------------------------------------------
Judge: <VOTING> Both debaters have presented strong arguments and evidence to support their claims. A argues that the primary reason for Martha wearing Terry's jacket is the reporter's request, emphasizing the formality and respect associated with it. A provides a direct quote from the story to support this claim. B argues that the primary reason is the deep emotional connection between Martha and Terry, highlighting her desire to feel close to him. B also provides a direct quote from the story to support this claim.

After carefully considering both arguments, I find B's argument more convincing. While A's argument about the reporter's request is valid, B's emphasis on the emotional connection between Martha and Terry resonates more strongly. The story consistently portrays Martha's deep love and pride for her son, and wearing his jacket allows her to feel close to him even when he is far away in space. The quote provided by B supports this perspective.

Probabilities: [0.4, 0.6]